===== PDF-side 442 =====

12-1
Fundamentals of Electricity & 
Electronics
Chapter 12
Introduction
This chapter addresses the fundamental concepts that are 
the building blocks for advanced electrical knowledge and 
practical troubleshooting. Some of the questions addressed 
are: How does energy travel through a copper wire and 
through space? What is electric current and electromotive 
force? What makes a landing light turn on or a hydraulic 
pump motor run? Each of these questions requires an 
understanding of many basic principles. By adding one 
basic idea on top of other basic ideas, it becomes possible 
to answer most of the interesting and practical questions 
about electricity or electronics.
Our understanding of electrical current must begin with the 
nature of matter. All matter is composed of molecules. All 
molecules are made up of atoms, which are themselves made 
up of electrons, protons, and neutrons.
General Composition of Matter
Matter
Matter can be defined as anything that has mass and volume 
and is the substance of which physical objects are composed. 
Essentially, it is anything that can be touched. Matter is what 
all things are made of; whatever occupies space, has mass, 
and is perceptible to the senses in some way. Weight is an 
indirect method of determining mass, but it is not the same. 
Weight is a measure of the pull of gravity acting on the mass 
of an object. The more mass an object has, the more it weighs 
under the earth’s force of gravity. Mathematically, weight can 
be stated as follows:
Weight = Mass × Gravity
Categories of matter are ordered by molecular activity. 
The four categories or states are: solids, liquids, gases, and 
plasma. For the purposes of the aircraft technician, only 
solids, liquids, and gases are considered.
Element
An element is a substance that cannot be reduced to a 
simpler form by chemical means. Iron, gold, silver, copper, 
and oxygen are examples of elements. Beyond this point of 
reduction, the element ceases to be what it is.
Compound
A compound is a chemical combination of two or more 
elements. Water is one of the most common compounds and 
is made up of two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom.
Molecule
The smallest particle of matter that can exist and still retain 
its identity, such as water (H 2O), is called a molecule.  
[Figure 12-1] Substances composed of only one type of atom 
are called elements. But most substances occur in nature as 
compounds, that is, combinations of two or more types of 
atoms. It would no longer retain the characteristics of water if 
it were compounded of one atom of hydrogen and two atoms 
of oxygen. If a drop of water is divided and then divided again 
and again until it cannot be divided any longer, it is still water.
Atom
The atom is considered to be the most basic building block 
of all matter. Atoms are composed of three subatomic 
particles: protons, neutrons, and electrons. These three 
particles determine the properties of the specific atoms. 
Elements are substances composed of the same atoms with 
specific properties. Oxygen is an example of this. The main 
property that defines each element is the number of neutrons, 
protons, and electrons. Hydrogen and helium are examples 
of elements. Both of these elements have neutrons, protons, 
and electrons but differ in the number of those items. This 
difference alone accounts for the variations in chemical and 
physical properties of these two different elements. There are 
over 100 known elements in the periodic table. [Figure 12-2] 
They are categorized according to their properties on that 
table. The kinetic theory of matter also states that the 
particles that make up the matter are always moving. Thermal 
expansion is considered in the kinetic theory and explains 
why matter contracts when it is cool and expands when it is 
hot, with the exception of water/ice.
Electrons, Protons, & Neutrons
At the center of the atom is the nucleus, which contains 
protons and neutrons. Protons are positively-charged 
particles, and neutrons are neutrally-charged particles. A 
neutron has approximately the same mass as the proton. The 
third particle of the atom is the electron that is a negatively-

===== PDF-side 443 =====

12-2
Oxygen atom
Hydrogen atoms
Nucleus Electrons
Figure 12-1. A water molecule.
charged particle with a very small mass compared to the 
proton. The proton’s mass is approximately 1,837 times 
greater than the electron. Due to the proton and the neutron 
location in the central portion of the atom (nucleus) and the 
electron’s position at the distant periphery of the atom, it 
is the electron that undergoes the change during chemical 
reactions. Since a proton weighs approximately 1,845 times 
as much as an electron, the number of protons and neutrons 
in its nucleus determines the overall weight of an atom. The 
weight of an electron is not considered in determining the 
weight of an atom. Indeed, the nature of electricity cannot be 
defined clearly because it is not certain whether the electron 
is a negative charge with no mass (weight) or a particle of 
matter with a negative charge.
Hydrogen represents the simplest form of an atom.  
[Figure 12-3] At the nucleus of the hydrogen atom is one 
proton and at the outer shell is one orbiting electron. At a 
more complex level is the oxygen atoms, which has eight 
electrons in two shells orbiting the nucleus with eight protons 
and eight neutrons. [Figure 12-4] When the total positive 
charge of the protons in the nucleus equals the total negative 
charge of the electrons in orbit around the nucleus, the atom 
is said to have a neutral charge.
Electron Shells & Energy Levels
Electrons require a certain amount of energy to stay in an 
orbit. This particular quantity is called the electron’s energy 
level. By its motion alone, the electron possesses kinetic 
energy, while the electron’s position in orbit determines its 
potential energy. The total energy of an electron is the main 
factor that determines the radius of the electron’s orbit.
Electrons of an atom appear only at certain definite energy 
levels (shells). The spacing between energy levels is such 
that when the chemical properties of the various elements are 
cataloged, it is convenient to group several closely spaced 
permissible energy levels together into electron shells. The 
maximum number of electrons that can be contained in any 
shell or sub-shell is the same for all atoms and is defined as 
electron capacity = 2n 2. In this equation, n represents the 
energy level in question. The first shell can only contain two 
electrons; the second shell can only contain eight electrons; 
the third, 18, and so on until we reach the seventh shell for 
the heaviest atoms, which have six energy levels. Because the 
innermost shell is the lowest energy level, the shell begins to 
fill up from the shell closest to the nucleus and fill outward 
as the atomic number of the element increases. However, 
an energy level does not need to be completely filled before 
electrons begin to fill the next level. The Periodic Table 
of Elements should be checked to determine an element’s 
electron configuration.
Valence Electrons
Valence is the number of chemical bonds an atom can 
form. Valence electrons are electrons that can participate in 
chemical bonds with other atoms. The number of electrons 
in the outermost shell of the atom is the determining factor 
in its valence. Therefore, the electrons contained in this shell 
are called valence electrons.
Ions
Ionization is the process by which an atom loses or gains 
electrons. Dislodging an electron from an atom causes the 
atom to become positively charged. This net positively-
charged atom is called a positive ion or a cation. An atom 
that has gained an extra number of electrons is negatively 
charged and is called a negative ion or an anion. When atoms 
are neutral, the positively-charged proton and the negatively-
charged electron are equal.
Free Electrons
Valence electrons are found drifting midway between two 
nuclei. Some electrons are more tightly bound to the nucleus 
of their atom than others and are positioned in a shell or sphere 
closer to the nucleus, while others are more loosely bound and 
orbit at a greater distance from the nucleus. These outermost 
electrons are called “free” electrons because they can be easily 
dislodged from the positive attraction of the protons in the 
nucleus. Once freed from the atom, the electron can then travel 
from atom to atom, becoming the flow of electrons commonly 
called current in a practical electrical circuit.
Electron Movement
Conductors, Insulators, and Semiconductors
The valence of an atom determines its ability to gain or 
lose an electron, which ultimately determines the chemical 
and electrical properties of the atom. These properties can 
be categorized as being a conductor, semiconductor, or 
insulator, depending on the ability of the material to produce 
free electrons. When a material has a large number of free

===== PDF-side 444 =====

12-3
Electron
Nucleus (1 Proton)
8 Protons
8 Neutrons
Figure 12-3. Hydrogen atom.
Figure 12-4. Oxygen atom.
Figure 12-2. Periodic table of elements.
electrons available, a greater current can be conducted in 
the material.
Conductors
Elements such as gold, copper, and silver possess many free 
electrons and make good conductors. The atoms in these 
materials have a few loosely bound electrons in their outer 
orbits. Energy in the form of heat can cause these electrons 
in the outer orbit to break loose and drift throughout the 
material. Copper and silver have one electron in their outer 
orbits. At room temperature, a piece of silver wire has billions 
of free electrons.
Insulators
Insulators are materials that do not conduct electrical current 
very well or not at all, such as glass, ceramic, and plastic.

===== PDF-side 445 =====

12-4
Under normal conditions, atoms in these materials do not 
produce free electrons. The absence of free electrons means 
that electrical current cannot be conducted through the 
material. Only when the material is in an extremely strong 
electrical field will the outer electrons be dislodged. This 
action is called breakdown and usually causes physical 
damage to the insulator.
Semiconductors
The material properties of semiconductors fall in between 
conductors and insulators. In their pure state, they are not 
good at conducting or insulating. Semiconductors can operate 
like a conductor or insulator depending on what external load 
is placed on the material. Semiconductors are used to make 
transistors and integrated circuits. Silicon and germanium 
are the most widely used semiconductor materials. For a 
more detailed explanation on this topic, refer to page 12-98 
in this chapter.
Metric Based Prefixes Used for Electrical 
Calculations
In any system of measurements, a single set of units is usually 
not sufficient for all the computations involved in electrical 
repair and maintenance. Small distances, for example, can 
usually be measured in inches, but larger distances are 
more meaningfully expressed in feet, yards, or miles. Since 
electrical values often vary from numbers that are a millionth 
part of a basic unit of measurement to very large values, it is 
often necessary to use a wide range of numbers to represent 
the values of units, such as volts, amperes, or ohms. A series 
of prefixes that appear with the name of the unit have been 
devised for the various multiples or submultiples of the basic 
units. There are 12 of these prefixes, which are also known as 
conversion factors. Four of the most commonly used prefixes 
in electrical work are:
Mega (M) means one million (1,000,000). 
Kilo (k) means one thousand (1,000).
Milli (m) means one-thousandth (1⁄1,000).
Micro (μ) means one-millionth (1⁄1,000,000).
Kilo is one of the most extensively used conversion factors. It 
explains the use of prefixes with basic units of measurement. 
Kilo means 1,000, and when used with volts, is expressed as 
kilovolt, meaning 1,000 volts. The symbol for kilo is the letter 
“k.” Thus, 1,000 volts is one kilovolt or 1 kV . Conversely, 
one volt would equal one-thousandth of a kV , or 1 ⁄1,000 kV . 
This could also be written 0.001 kV .
Similarly, the word “milli” means one-thousandth, and 
thus, 1 millivolt equals one-thousandth (1⁄1000) of a volt. 
Figure 12-5 contains a complete list of the multiples used to 
express electrical quantities, together with the prefixes and 
symbols used to represent each number.
Static Electricity
Electricity is often described as being either static or dynamic. 
The difference between the two is based simply on whether 
the electrons are at rest (static) or in motion (dynamic). Static 
electricity is a buildup of an electrical charge on the surface 
of an object. It is considered “static” due to the fact that there 
is no current flowing as in alternate current (AC) or direct 
current (DC) electricity. Static electricity is usually caused 
when non-conductive materials, such as rubber, plastic, or 
glass, are rubbed together causing a transfer of electrons, 
which results in an imbalance of charges between the two 
materials. The fact that there is an imbalance of charges 
between the two materials means that the objects will exhibit 
an attractive or repulsive force.
Attractive and Repulsive Forces
One of the most fundamental laws of static electricity, as 
well as magnetics, deals with attraction and repulsion. Like 
charges repel each other and unlike charges attract each other. 
All electrons possess a negative charge and as such repel each 
other. Similarly, all protons possess a positive charge and 
as such repel each other. Electrons (negative) and protons 
(positive) are opposite in their charge and attract each other.
For example, if two pith balls are suspended, as shown in 
Figure 12-6, and each ball is touched with the charged glass 
rod, some of the charge from the rod is transferred to the balls. 
The balls now have similar charges and, consequently, repel 
each other as shown in part B of Figure 12-6. If a plastic rod 
is rubbed with fur, it becomes negatively charged and the 
fur is positively charged. By touching each ball with these 
differently charged sources, the balls obtain opposite charges 
and attract each other as shown in part C of Figure 12-6.
Although most objects become charged with static electricity 
by means of friction, a charged substance can also influence 
objects near it by contact. [Figure 12-7] If a positively-charged 
rod touches an uncharged metal bar, it draws electrons from 
the uncharged bar to the point of contact. Some electrons enter 
the rod, leaving the metal bar with a deficiency of electrons 
(positively charged) and making the rod less positive than it 
was or, perhaps, even neutralizing its charge completely.
A method of charging a metal bar by induction is demonstrated 
in Figure 12-8. A positively-charged rod is brought near, but 
does not touch, an uncharged metal bar. Electrons in the metal 
bar are attracted to the end of the bar nearest the positively-
charged rod, leaving a deficiency of electrons at the opposite 
end of the bar. If this positively-charged end is touched by 
a neutral object, electrons will flow into the metal bar and

===== PDF-side 446 =====

12-5
Number Prefix Symbol
1,000,000,000,000  tera  t
1,000,000,000  giga  g
1,000,000  mega  M
1,000  kilo  k
100  hecto  h
10  deka  dk
0.1  deci  d
0.01  centi  c
0.001  milli  m
0.000001  micro  µ
0.000000001  nano  n
0.000000000001  pico  pFigure 12-5. Prefixes and symbols for multiples of basic quantities.
neutralize the charge. The metal bar is left with an overall 
excess of electrons.
Electrostatic Field
A field of force exists around a charged body. This field is 
an electrostatic field (sometimes called a dielectric field) and 
is represented by lines extending in all directions from the 
charged body and terminating where there is an equal and 
opposite charge.
To explain the action of an electrostatic field, lines are used 
to represent the direction and intensity of the electric field 
of force. As illustrated in Figure 12-9, the intensity of the 
field is indicated by the number of lines per unit area, and 
the direction is shown by arrowheads on the lines pointing 
in the direction in which a small test charge would move (or 
tend to move) if acted upon by the field of force.
Either a positive or negative test charge can be used, but it 
has been arbitrarily agreed that a small positive charge is 
always used in determining the direction of the field. Thus, 
the direction of the field around a positive charge is always 
away from the charge because a positive test charge would 
be repelled. [Figure 12-9] On the other hand, the direction of 
the lines about a negative charge is toward the charge, since 
a positive test charge is attracted toward it.
Figure 12-10 illustrates the field around bodies having like 
charges. Positive charges are shown, but regardless of the 
type of charge, the lines of force would repel each other if the 
charges were alike. The lines terminate on material objects 
and always extend from a positive charge to a negative 
charge. These are imaginary lines used to show the direction 
a real force takes.
It is important to know how a charge is distributed on an 
object. Figure 12-11 shows a small metal disk on which 
a concentrated negative charge has been placed. By using 
an electrostatic detector, it can be shown that the charge is 
spread evenly over the entire surface of the disk. Since the 
metal disk provides uniform resistance everywhere on its 
surface, the mutual repulsion of electrons results in an even 
distribution over the entire surface.
Another example, shown in Figure 12-12, is the charge on 
a hollow sphere. Although the sphere is made of conducting 
material, the charge is evenly distributed over the outside 
surface. The inner surface is completely neutral. This 
phenomenon is used to safeguard operating personnel of the 
large Van de Graaff static generators used for atom smashing. 
The safest area for the operators is inside the large sphere, 
where millions of volts are being generated.
The distribution of the charge on an irregularly-shaped object 
differs from that on a regularly-shaped object. Figure 12-13 
shows that the charge on such objects is not evenly 
distributed. The greatest charge is at the points, or areas of 
sharpest curvature, of the objects.
Electrostatic Discharge (ESD) Considerations
One of the most frequent causes of damage to a solid- 
state component or integrated circuits is the electrostatic 
discharge (ESD) from the human body when one of these 
devices is handled. Careless handling of line replaceable 
units (LRUs), circuit cards, and discrete components can 
cause unnecessarily time consuming and expensive repairs. 
This damage can occur if a technician touches the mating 
pins for a card or box. Other sources for ESD can be the top 
of a toolbox that is covered with a carpet. Damage can be 
avoided by discharging the static electricity from your body 
by touching the chassis of the removed box, by wearing 
a grounding wrist strap, and exercising good professional 
handling of the components in the aircraft. This can include 
placing protective caps over open connectors and not placing 
an ESD-sensitive component in an environment that causes 
damage. Parts that are ESD sensitive are typically shipped 
in bags specially designed to protect components from 
electrostatic damage.
Other precautions that should be taken with working with 
electronic components are:
1. Always connect a ground between test equipment and 
circuit before attempting to inject or monitor a signal.
2. Ensure test voltages do not exceed maximum 
allowable voltage for the circuit components and 
transistors.
3. Ohmmeter ranges that require a current of more than 
one milliampere in the test circuit should not be used 
for testing transistors.

===== PDF-side 447 =====

12-6
A
B
C
Pith balls
Charge rod
Repulsion
Attraction
Electrons are attracted
by positive chargePositively-charged
rod almost touching
uncharged bar
The rod is now less
positively charged
When rod touches bar,
electrons enter rod
Metal bar now has
positive charge
Electrons are attracted
toward charged rod
Rod is removed and
excess electrons remain
Electrons are attracted off 
finger and enter bar
Finger is removed. Positive 
and negative charges are 
mostly neutralized
Figure 12-6. Reaction of like and unlike charges.
Figure 12-7. Charging by contact.
Figure 12-8. Charging a bar by induction.
4. The heat applied to a diode or transistor, when 
soldering is required, should be kept to a minimum 
by using low-wattage soldering irons and heat sinks.
5. Do not pry components of a circuit board.
6. Power must be removed from a circuit before replacing 
a component.
7. When using test probes on equipment and the space 
between the test points is very close, keep the exposed 
portion of the leads as small as possible to prevent 
shorting.
Magnetism
Magnetism is defined as the property of an object to attract 
certain metallic substances. In general, these substances are 
ferrous materials; that is, materials composed of iron or iron

===== PDF-side 448 =====

12-7
Inside surface neutral
Greatest charge
Figure 12-9. Direction of electric field around positive and negative 
charges.
Figure 12-12. Charge on a hollow sphere.
Figure 12-13. Charge on irregularly-shaped objects.
Figure 12-10. Field around two positively-charged bodies.
Figure 12-11. Even distribution of charge on metal disk.
alloys, such as soft iron, steel, and alnico. These materials, 
sometimes called magnetic materials, include at least three 
nonferrous materials: nickel, cobalt, and gadolinium, which 
are magnetic to a limited degree. All other substances are 
considered nonmagnetic. A few of these non-magnetic 
substances can be classified as diamagnetic since they are 
repelled by both poles of a magnet.
Magnetism is an invisible force, the ultimate nature of which 
has not been fully determined. It can best be described by 
the effects it produces. Examination of a simple bar magnet 
similar to that illustrated in Figure 12-14 discloses some basic 
characteristics of all magnets. If the magnet is suspended to 
swing freely, it aligns itself with the earth’s magnetic poles. 
One end is labeled “N,” meaning the North seeking end or 
pole of the magnet. If the “N” end of a compass or magnet 
is referred to as North seeking rather than North, there is no 
conflict in referring to the pole it seeks, which is the North 
magnetic pole. The opposite end of the magnet, marked “S” 
is the South seeking end and points to the South magnetic 
pole. Since the earth is a giant magnet, its poles attract 
the ends of the magnet. These poles are not located at the 
geographic poles.
The somewhat mysterious and completely invisible force 
of a magnet depends on a magnetic field that surrounds the 
magnet. [Figure 12-15] This field always exists between 
the poles of a magnet and arranges itself to conform to the 
shape of any magnet.
The theory that explains the action of a magnet holds that each 
molecule making up the iron bar is itself a tiny magnet, with 
both North and South poles as illustrated in Figure 12-16A. 
These molecular magnets each possess a magnetic field, 
but in an unmagnetized state, the molecules are arranged at 
random throughout the iron bar. If a magnetizing force, such 
as stroking with a lodestone, is applied to the unmagnetized

===== PDF-side 449 =====

12-8
North Pole
South 
Pole
Lines of force
N
S
N S
Figure 12-14. One end of magnetized strip points to the magnetic 
North pole.
Figure 12-15. Magnetic field around magnets.
bar, the molecular magnets rearrange themselves in line with 
the magnetic field of the lodestone, with all North ends of the 
magnets pointing in one direction and all South ends in the 
opposite direction. [Figure 12-16B] In such a configuration, 
the magnetic fields of the magnets combine to produce the 
total field of the magnetized bar.
When handling a magnet, avoid applying direct heat, 
hammering, or dropping it. Heating or sudden shock creates 
misalignment of the molecules, causing the strength of a 
magnet to decrease. When a magnet is to be stored, devices 
known as “keeper bars” are installed to provide an easy path 
for flux lines from one pole to the other. This promotes the 
retention of the molecules in their North-South alignment.
The presence of the magnetic force or field around a magnet 
can best be demonstrated by the experiment illustrated in 
Figure 12-17. A sheet of transparent material, such as glass 
or Lucite™, is placed over a bar magnet and iron filings are 
sprinkled slowly on this transparent shield. If the glass or 
Lucite™ is tapped lightly, the iron filings arrange themselves 
in a definite pattern around the bar, forming a series of lines 
from the North to South end of the bar to indicate the pattern 
of the magnetic field.
As shown, the field of a magnet is made up of many individual 
forces that appear as lines in the iron filing demonstration. 
Although they are not “lines” in the ordinary sense, this word 
is used to describe the individual nature of the separate forces 
making up the entire magnetic field. These lines of force are 
also referred to as magnetic flux.
They are separate and individual forces, since one line will 
never cross another; indeed, they actually repel one another. 
They remain parallel to one another and resemble stretched 
rubber bands, since they are held in place around the bar by 
the internal magnetizing force of the magnet.
The demonstration with iron filings further shows that the 
magnetic field of a magnet is concentrated at the ends of 
the magnet. These areas of concentrated flux are called the 
North and South poles of the magnet. There is a limit to the 
number of lines of force that can be crowded into a magnet of 
a given size. When a magnetizing force is applied to a piece 
of magnetic material, a point is reached where no more lines 
of force can be induced or introduced. The material is then 
said to be saturated.
The characteristics of the magnetic flux can be demonstrated 
by tracing the flux patterns of two bar magnets with like poles 
together. [Figure 12-18] The two like poles repel one another 
because the lines of force will not cross each other. As the 
arrows on the individual lines indicate, the lines turn aside as 
the two like poles are brought near each other and travel in a 
path parallel to each other. Lines moving in this manner repel 
each other, causing the magnets as a whole to repel each other.
By reversing the position of one of the magnets, the attraction 
of unlike poles can be demonstrated. [Figure 12-19] As the 
unlike poles are brought near each other, the lines of force 
rearrange their paths and most of the flux leaving the North 
pole of one magnet enters the South pole of the other. The 
tendency of lines of force to repel each other is indicated by 
the bulging of the flux in the air gap between the two magnets.
To further demonstrate that lines of force do not cross 
one another, a bar magnet and a horseshoe magnet can be 
positioned to display a magnetic field similar to that of

===== PDF-side 450 =====

12-9
Unmagnetized Magnetized
N S
N S
N S
N S
N S
N S
N S
N S
A B
N
S
N
S
N
S
N SN
S
N
S
N
S S
N
S
N
S N
S
N
Figure 12-16. Arrangement of molecules in a piece of magnetic material.
of one. The nonferrous metals with a permeability greater 
than one, such as nickel and cobalt, are called paramagnetic. 
The term ferromagnetic is applied to iron and its alloys, 
which have by far the greatest permeability. Any substance, 
such as bismuth, having a permeability of less than one, is 
considered diamagnetic.
Reluctance, the measure of opposition to the lines of force 
through a material, can be compared to the resistance of an 
electrical circuit. The reluctance of soft iron, for instance, is 
much lower than that of air. Figure 12-24 demonstrates that a 
piece of soft iron placed near the field of a magnet can distort 
the lines of force, which follow the path of lowest reluctance 
through the soft iron.
The magnetic circuit can be compared in many respects 
to an electrical circuit. The magnetomotive force, causing 
lines of force in the magnetic circuit, can be compared to 
the electromotive force (emf) or electrical pressure of an 
electrical circuit. The magnetomotive force is measured in 
gilberts, symbolized by the capital letter “F.” The symbol for 
the intensity of the lines of force, or flux, is the Greek letter 
phi, and the unit of field intensity is the gauss. An individual 
line of force, called a maxwell, in an area of one square 
centimeter produces a field intensity of one gauss. Using 
reluctance rather than permeability, the law for magnetic 
circuits can be stated: a magnetomotive force of one gilbert 
causes one maxwell, or line of force, to be set up in a material 
when the reluctance of the material is one.
Types of Magnets
Magnets are either natural or artificial. Since naturally 
occurring magnets or lodestones have no practical use, all 
magnets considered in this chapter are artificial or manmade. 
Artificial magnets can be further classified as permanent 
magnets, which retain their magnetism long after the 
magnetizing force has been removed, and temporary magnets, 
which quickly lose most of their magnetism when the external 
magnetizing force is removed.
Figure 12-20. The magnetic fields of the two magnets do 
not combine, but are rearranged into a distorted flux pattern.
The two bar magnets may be held in the hands and the North 
poles brought near each other to demonstrate the force of 
repulsion between like poles. In a similar manner, the two 
South poles can demonstrate this force. The force of attraction 
between unlike poles can be felt by bringing a South and a 
North end together. [Figure 12-21]
Figure 12-22 illustrates another characteristic of magnets. 
If the bar magnet is cut or broken into pieces, each piece 
immediately becomes a magnet itself, with a North and South 
pole. This feature supports the theory that each molecule 
is a magnet, since each successive division of the magnet 
produces more magnets.
Since the magnetic lines of force form a continuous loop, 
they form a magnetic circuit. It is impossible to say where in 
the magnet they originate or start. Arbitrarily, it is assumed 
that all lines of force leave the North pole of any magnet and 
enter at the South pole.
There is no known insulator for magnetic flux, or lines of 
force, since they pass through all materials. However, they do 
pass through some materials more easily than others. Thus, 
it is possible to shield items, such as instruments, from the 
effects of the flux by surrounding them with a material that 
offers an easier path for the lines of force. Figure 12-23 shows 
an instrument surrounded by a path of soft iron, which offers 
very little opposition to magnetic flux. The lines of force 
take the easier path, the path of greater permeability, and are 
guided away from the instrument.
Materials such as soft iron and other ferrous metals are 
said to have a high permeability, the measure of the ease 
with which magnetic flux can penetrate a material. The 
permeability scale is based on a perfect vacuum with a 
rating of one. Air and other nonmagnetic materials are so 
close to this that they are also considered to have a rating

===== PDF-side 451 =====

12-10
Magnet
Magnet
Tracing out a magnetic field
by means of iron filings
How the iron filings
arrange themselves
Iron filings
Lucite
Figure 12-17. Tracing out a magnetic field with iron filings.
Air gap
S N
 SN
N S
 SN
Air gap
Figure 12-18. Like poles repel.
Figure 12-19. Unlike poles attract.

===== PDF-side 452 =====

12-11
N S
N
S
S N S N S N S N S N S N
0 3
6
9
12
15
18
21
24
27
30
33
RADIO
COMPASS
Soft iron
Figure 12-20. Bypassing flux lines.
Figure 12-22. Magnetic poles in a broken magnet.
Figure 12-23. Magnetic shield.
Repulsion Repulsion Attraction
S N
 N S
 N S
 S N
 S N
 S N
Figure 12-21. Repulsion and attraction of magnet poles.
Modern permanent magnets are made of special alloys that 
have been found through research to create increasingly 
better magnets. The most common categories of magnet 
materials are made out of aluminum-nickel-cobalt 
(alnicos), strontium-iron (ferrites, also known as ceramics), 
neodymium-iron-boron (neo magnets), and samarium-
cobalt. Alnico, an alloy of iron, aluminum, nickel and 
cobalt, is considered one of the very best. Others with 
excellent magnetic qualities are alloys such as Remalloy™ 
and Permendur™.
The ability of a magnet to hold its magnetism varies greatly 
with the type of metal and is known as retentivity. Magnets 
made of soft iron are very easily magnetized but quickly 
lose most of their magnetism when the external magnetizing 
force is removed. The small amount of magnetism remaining, 
called residual magnetism, is of great importance in such 
electrical applications as generator operation.
Horseshoe magnets are commonly manufactured in two forms. 
[Figure 12-25] The most common type is made from a long 
bar curved into a horseshoe shape, while a variation of this 
type consists of two bars connected by a third bar, or yoke.
Magnets can be made in many different shapes, such as balls, 
cylinders, or disks. One special type of magnet is the ring 
magnet, or Gramme ring, often used in instruments. This is 
a closed loop magnet, similar to the type used in transformer 
cores, and is the only type that has no poles.
Sometimes special applications require that the field of force 
lie through the thickness rather than the length of a piece of 
metal. Such magnets are called flat magnets and are used as 
pole pieces in generators and motors.

===== PDF-side 453 =====

12-12
S N
Soft iron
N
N
N
S
S
S
N S
Figure 12-24. Effect of a magnetic substance in a magnetic field. Figure 12-25. Two forms of horseshoe magnets.
Electromagnetism
In 1820, the Danish physicist, Hans Christian Oersted, 
discovered that the needle of a compass brought near a current 
carrying conductor would be deflected. When the current flow 
stopped, the compass needle returned to its original position. 
This important discovery demonstrated a relationship between 
electricity and magnetism that led to the electromagnet and to 
many of the inventions on which modern industry is based.
Oersted discovered that the magnetic field had no connection 
with the conductor in which the electrons were flowing, 
because the conductor was made of nonmagnetic copper. The 
electrons moving through the wire created the magnetic field 
around the conductor. Since a magnetic field accompanies a 
charged particle, the greater the current flow, the greater the 
magnetic field. Figure 12-26 i llustrates the magnetic field 
around a current carrying wire. A series of concentric circles 
around the conductor represent the field, which if all the lines 
were shown would appear more as a continuous cylinder of 
such circles around the conductor.
As long as current flows in the conductor, the lines of force 
remain around it.  [Figure 12-27] If a small current flows 
through the conductor, there will be a line of force extending 
out to circle A. If the current flow is increased, the line of 
force increases in size to circle B, and a further increase in 
current expands it to circle C. As the original line (circle) of 
force expands from circle A to B, a new line of force appears 
at circle A. As the current flow increases, the number of 
circles of force increases, expanding the outer circles farther 
from the surface of the current carrying conductor.
If the current flow is a steady nonvarying direct current, the 
magnetic field remains stationary. When the current stops, 
the magnetic field collapses and the magnetism around the 
conductor disappears.
A compass needle is used to demonstrate the direction of 
the magnetic field around a current carrying conductor. 
Figure 12-28A shows a compass needle positioned at right 
angles to, and approximately one inch from, a current 
carrying conductor. If no current were flowing, the North 
seeking end of the compass needle would point toward the 
earth’s magnetic pole. When current flows, the needle lines 
itself up at right angles to a radius drawn from the conductor. 
Since the compass needle is a small magnet, with lines of 
force extending from South to North inside the metal, it turns 
until the direction of these lines agrees with the direction 
of the lines of force around the conductor. As the compass 
needle is moved around the conductor, it maintains itself in 
a position at right angles to the conductor, indicating that the 
magnetic field around a current carrying conductor is circular. 
As shown in Figure 12-28B, when the direction of current 
flow through the conductor is reversed, the compass needle 
points in the opposite direction, indicating the magnetic field 
has reversed its direction.
A method used to determine the direction of the lines of force 
when the direction of the current flow is known is shown in 
Figure 12-29. If the conductor is grasped in the left hand, 
with the thumb pointing in the direction of current flow, the 
fingers will be wrapped around the conductor in the same 
direction as the lines of the magnetic field. This is called the 
left-hand rule.
Although it has been stated that the lines of force have direction, 
this should not be construed to mean that the lines have motion 
in a circular direction around the conductor. Although the 
lines of force tend to act in a clockwise or counterclockwise 
direction, they are not revolving around the conductor.
Since current flows from negative to positive, many 
illustrations indicate current direction with a dot symbol 
on the end of the conductor when the electrons are flowing 
toward and a plus sign when the current is flowing away 
from the observer. [Figure 12-30]
When a wire is bent into a loop and an electric current flows 
through it, the left-hand rule remains valid. [Figure 12-31]
If the wire is coiled into two loops, many of the lines of force 
become large enough to include both loops. Lines of force

===== PDF-side 454 =====

12-13
Magnetic fields
Conductor
Magnetic lines
Conductor
A
B
C
Magnetic field
Compass
Current carrying conductor
Checking direction of magnetic field,
using N            S compass
and left-hand rule
A B
Figure 12-26. Magnetic field formed around a conductor in which 
current is flowing.
Figure 12-27. Expansion of magnetic field as current increases.
Figure 12-28. Magnetic field around a current-carrying conductor.
go through the loops in the same direction, circle around the 
outside of the two coils, and come in at the opposite end. 
[Figure 12-32]
When a wire contains many such loops, it is called a coil. The 
lines of force form a pattern through all the loops causing 
a high concentration of flux lines through the center of the 
coil. [Figure 12-33]
In a coil made from loops of a conductor, many of the 
lines of force are dissipated between the loops of the coil. 
By placing a soft iron bar inside the coil, the lines of force 
are concentrated in the center of the coil, since soft iron 
has a greater permeability than air. [Figure 12-34] This 
combination of an iron core in a coil of wire loops, or turns, 
is called an electromagnet, since the poles (ends) of the coil 
possess the characteristics of a bar magnet.
The addition of the soft iron core does two things for the 
current carrying coil. First, the magnetic flux is increased. 
Second, the flux lines are more highly concentrated.
When direct current flows through the coil, the core becomes 
magnetized with the same polarity (location of North and 
South poles) as the coil would have without the core. If the 
current is reversed, the polarity is also reversed.
The polarity of the electromagnet is determined by the 
left-hand rule in the same manner as the polarity of the 
coil without the core was determined. If the coil is grasped 
in the left hand in such a manner that the fingers curve

===== PDF-side 455 =====

12-14
Direction
of field
Direction of current
Dot indicates current is 
flowing out of the conductor
Cross indicates current is 
flowing into the conductor
+
Figure 12-29. Left-hand rule.
Figure 12-30. Direction of current flow in a conductor. Figure 12-31. Magnetic field around a looped conductor.
around the coil in the direction of electron flow (minus to 
plus), the thumb points in the direction of the North pole. 
[Figure 12-35]
The strength of the magnetic field of the electromagnet 
can be increased by either increasing the flow of current or 
the number of loops in the wire. Doubling the current flow 
approximately doubles the strength of the field. In a similar 
manner, doubling the number of loops approximately doubles 
magnetic field strength. Finally, the type of metal in the core 
is a factor in the field strength of the electromagnet.
A soft iron bar is attracted to either pole of a permanent 
magnet and, likewise, is attracted by a current carrying coil. 
The lines of force extend through the soft iron, magnetizing 
it by induction and pulling the iron bar toward the coil. If 
the bar is free to move, it is drawn into the coil to a position 
near the center where the field is strongest. [Figure 12-36]
Electromagnets are used in electrical instruments, motors, 
generators, relays, and other devices. Some electromagnetic 
devices operate on the principle that an iron core held away 
from the center of a coil is rapidly pulled into a center position 
when the coil is energized. This principle is used in the 
solenoid, also called solenoid switch or relay, in which the 
iron core is spring-loaded off center and moves to complete 
a circuit when the coil is energized.
Conventional Flow & Electron Flow
Today’s technician will find that there are two competing 
schools of thought and analytical practices regarding the flow 
of electricity. The two are called the conventional current 
theory and the electron theory.
Conventional Flow
Of the two, the conventional current theory was the first to 
be developed and, through many years of use, this method 
has become ingrained in electrical publications. The theory 
was initially advanced by Benjamin Franklin who reasoned 
that current flowed out of a positive source into a negative 
source or an area that lacked an abundance of charge. The 
notation assigned to the electric charges was positive (+) 
for the abundance of charge and negative (−) for a lack of 
charge. It then seemed natural to visualize the flow of current 
as being from the positive (+) to the negative (−).
Electron Flow
Later discoveries were made that proved just the opposite 
is true. Electron flow is what actually happens when an 
abundance of electrons flow out of the negative (−) source 
to an area that lacks electrons or the positive (+) source. Both 
conventional flow and electron flow are used in industry. 
Many publications in current use employ both electron flow 
and conventional flow methods. From the practical standpoint 
of the technician troubleshooting a system, it makes little 
to no difference which way current is flowing as long as it 
is used consistently in the analysis. The Federal Aviation 
Administration (FAA) officially defines current flow using 
electron theory (negative to positive).
Electromotive Force (Voltage)
Unlike current, which is easy to visualize as a flow, voltage 
is a variable that is determined between two points. Often, 
we refer to voltage as a value across two points. It is the 
electromotive force (emf) or the push or pressure felt in a

===== PDF-side 456 =====

12-15
Direction of
current
S N
Figure 12-32. Magnetic field around a conductor with two loops.
Figure 12-33. Magnetic field of a coil.
S N
Figure 12-34. Electromagnet.

===== PDF-side 457 =====

12-16
S N
N S
N S
Figure 12-35. Left-hand rule applied to a coil.
Figure 12-36. Solenoid with iron core.
conductor that ultimately moves the electrons in a flow. The 
symbol for emf is the capital letter “E.”
Across the terminals of the typical aircraft battery, voltage 
can be measured as the potential difference of 12 volts or 
24 volts. That is to say that between the two terminal posts 
of the battery, there is an emf of 12 or 24 volts available to 
push current through a circuit. Relatively free electrons in 
the negative terminal move toward the excessive number 
of positive charges in the positive terminal. Recall from the 
discussion on static electricity that like charges repel each 
other but opposite charges attract each other. The net result 
is a flow or current through a conductor. There cannot be a 
flow in a conductor unless there is an applied voltage from 
a battery, generator, or ground power unit. The potential 
difference, or the voltage across any two points in an electrical 
system, can be determined by:
Where
 E = E
Q
 E = Potential difference in volts
 E  = Energy expanded or absorbed in joules (J)
 Q = Charge measured in coulombs
Figure 12-37  illustrates the flow of electrons of electric 
current. Two interconnected water tanks demonstrate that 
when a difference of pressure exists between the two tanks, 
water flows until the two tanks are equalized. The illustration 
shows the level of water in tank A to be at a higher level, 
reading 10 psi (higher potential energy) than the water level 
in tank B, reading 2 psi (lower potential energy). Between 
the two tanks, there is 8-psi potential difference. If the valve 
in the interconnecting line between the tanks is opened, 
water flows from tank A into tank B until the level of water 
(potential energy) of both tanks is equalized. It is important 
to note that it was not the pressure in tank A that caused the 
water to flow; rather, it was the difference in pressure between 
tank A and tank B that caused the flow.
This comparison illustrates the principle that electrons move, 
when a path is available, from a point of excess electrons 
(higher potential energy) to a point deficient in electrons 
(lower potential energy). The force that causes this movement 
is the potential difference in electrical energy between the 
two points. This force is called the electrical pressure or 
the potential difference or the electromotive force (electron 
moving force).
Current
Electrons in motion make up an electric current. This electric 
current is usually referred to as “current” or “current flow,” 
no matter how many electrons are moving. Current is a 
measurement of a rate at which a charge flows through some 
region of space or a conductor. The moving charges are the 
free electrons found in conductors, such as copper, silver, 
aluminum, and gold. The term “free electron” describes a 
condition in some atoms where the outer electrons are loosely 
bound to their parent atom. These loosely bound electrons 
can be easily motivated to move in a given direction when 
an external source, such as a battery, is applied to the circuit. 
These electrons are attracted to the positive terminal of the 
battery, while the negative terminal is the source of the 
electrons. The greater amount of charge moving through the 
conductor in a given amount of time translates into a current.
 Current = Charge
Time
       or
 I = Q
t
 Where:
 I = current in amperes (A)
 Q = charge in coulombs (C)
 T = time

===== PDF-side 458 =====

12-17
A B
Figure 12-37. Difference of pressure.
The System International (SI) unit for current is the ampere 
(A), where
 1A = 1 C
s
One ampere (A) of current is equivalent to 1 coulomb (C) 
of charge passing through a conductor in 1 second. One 
coulomb of charge equals 6.28 billion electrons. The symbol 
used to indicate current in formulas or on schematics is the 
capital letter “I.”
When current flow is one direction, it is called direct 
current (DC). Later in the handbook, the form of current 
that periodically oscillates back and forth within the circuit 
is discussed. The present discussion is only concerned with 
the use of DC.
The velocity of the charge is actually an average velocity 
and is called drift velocity. To understand the idea of drift 
velocity, think of a conductor in which the charge carriers 
are free electrons. These electrons are always in a state of 
random motion similar to that of gas molecules. When a 
voltage is applied across the conductor, an emf creates an 
electric field within the conductor and a current is established. 
The electrons do not move in a straight direction but undergo 
repeated collisions with other nearby atoms. These collisions 
usually knock other free electrons from their atoms, and 
these electrons move on toward the positive end of the 
conductor with an average velocity called the drift velocity, 
which is relatively a slow speed. To understand the nearly 
instantaneous speed of the effect of the current, it is helpful 
to visualize a long tube filled with steel balls as shown in 
Figure 12-38. It can be seen that a ball introduced in one end 
of the tube, which represents the conductor, will immediately 
cause a ball to be emitted at the opposite end of the tube. 
Thus, electric current can be viewed as instantaneous, even 
though it is the result of a relatively slow drift of electrons.
Ohm’s Law (Resistance)
The two fundamental properties of current and voltage 
are related by a third property known as resistance. In any 
electrical circuit, when voltage is applied to it, a current 
results. The resistance of the conductor determines the 
amount of current that flows under the given voltage. In most 
cases, the greater the circuit resistance, the less the current. 
If the resistance is reduced, then the current increases. This 
relation is linear in nature and is known as Ohm’s Law.
By having a linearly proportional characteristic, it is meant 
that if one unit in the relationship increases or decreases by 
a certain percentage, the other variables in the relationship 
increase or decrease by the same percentage. An example 
would be if the voltage across a resistor is doubled, then 
the current through the resistor doubles. It should be added 
that this relationship is true only if the resistance in the 
circuit remains constant. If the resistance changes, current 
also changes. A graph of this relationship is shown in 
Figure 12-39, which uses a constant resistance of 20Ω. The 
relationship between voltage and current in this example 
shows voltage plotted horizontally along the X axis in values 
from 0 to 120 volts, and the corresponding values of current 
are plotted vertically in values from 0 to 6.0 amperes along 
the Y axis. A straight line drawn through all the points where 
the voltage and current lines meet represents the equation I 
= E⁄20 and is called a linear relationship. 
 If  E = 10 V
 Then   10 V
20 Ω = 0.5 A
 If  E = 60 V
 Then   60 V
20 Ω = 3 A
 If  E = 120 V
 Then   120V
20 Ω = 6 A
Ohm’s Law may be expressed as an equation, as follows:
 Equation 1
 I = E
R
 I = current in amperes (A)
 E = voltage (V)
 R = resistance (Ω)
Where I is current in amperes, E is the potential difference 
measured in volts, and R is the resistance measured in ohms.

===== PDF-side 459 =====

12-18
Figure 12-38. Electron movement.
If any two of these circuit quantities are known, the third 
may be found by simple algebraic transposition. With this 
equation, we can calculate current in a circuit if the voltage 
and resistance are known. This same formula can be used to 
calculate voltage. By multiplying both sides of the equation 
1 by R, we get an equivalent form of Ohm’s Law, which is:
 Equation 2 
 E = I (R)
Finally, if we divide equation 2 by I, we solve for resistance, 
This relationship is true only if the resistance in the 
circuit remains constant. If the resistance changes, current 
also changes. A graph of this relationship is shown in 
Figure 12-39, which uses a constant resistance of 20Ω. The 
relationship between voltage and current in this example 
shows voltage plotted horizontally along the X axis in values 
from 0 to 120 volts. The corresponding values of current are 
plotted vertically in values from 0 to 6.0 amperes along the 
Y axis. A straight line drawn through all the points where the 
voltage and current lines meet represents the equation I = E⁄20 
and is called a linear relationship.
 Equation 3
 R = E
I
All three formulas presented in this section are equivalent 
to each other and are simply different ways of expressing 
Ohm’s Law.
The various equations, which may be derived by transposing 
the basic law, can be easily obtained by using the triangles 
in Figure 12-40.
The triangles containing E, R, and I are divided into two 
parts, with E above the line and I × R below it. To determine 
an unknown circuit quantity when the other two are known, 
cover the unknown quantity with a thumb. The location of 
the remaining uncovered letters in the triangle indicate the 
mathematical operation to be performed. For example, to find 
I, refer to Figure 12-40A, and cover I with the thumb. The 
uncovered letters indicate that E is to be divided by R, or I = 
E⁄R. To find R, refer to Figure 12-40B, and cover R with the 
thumb. The result indicates that E is to be divided by I, or R 
= E⁄I. To find E, refer to Figure 12-40C, and cover E with the 
thumb. The result indicates I is to be multiplied by R, or E = 
I × R. This chart is useful when learning to use Ohm’s Law. 
It should be used to supplement the beginner’s knowledge 
of the algebraic method.
Resistance of a Conductor
While wire of any size or resistance value may be used, the 
word “conductor” usually refers to materials that offer low 
resistance to current flow, and the word “insulator” describes 
materials that offer high resistance to current. There is no 
distinct dividing line between conductors and insulators; under 
the proper conditions, all types of material conduct some 
current. Materials offering a resistance to current flow midway 
between the best conductors and the poorest conductors 
(insulators) are sometimes referred to as “semiconductors,” 
and find their greatest application in the field of transistors.
The best conductors are materials, chiefly metals, which 
possess a large number of free electrons; conversely, 
insulators are materials having few free electrons. The best 
conductors are silver, copper, gold, and aluminum; but 
some nonmetals, such as carbon and water, can be used as 
conductors. Materials such as rubber, glass, ceramics, and 
plastics are such poor conductors that they are usually used 
as insulators. The current flow in some of these materials 
is so low that it is usually considered zero. The unit used 
to measure resistance is called the ohm. The symbol for the 
ohm is the Greek letter omega (Ω). In mathematical formulas, 
the capital letter “R” refers to resistance. The resistance of a 
conductor and the voltage applied to it determine the number 
of amperes of current flowing through the conductor. Thus, 
1 ohm of resistance limits the current flow to 1 ampere in a 
conductor to which a voltage of 1 volt is applied.
Factors Affecting Resistance
1. The resistance of a metallic conductor is dependent on 
the type of conductor material. It has been pointed out 
that certain metals are commonly used as conductors 
because of the large number of free electrons in their 
outer orbits. Copper is usually considered the best 
available conductor material, since a copper wire of a 
particular diameter offers a lower resistance to current 
flow than an aluminum wire of the same diameter. 
However, aluminum is much lighter than copper, and 
for this reason, as well as cost considerations, aluminum 
is often used when the weight factor is important.
2. The resistance of a metallic conductor is directly 
proportional to its length. The longer the length 
of a given size of wire, the greater the resistance. 
Figure 12-41 shows two wire conductors of different 
lengths. If 1 volt of electrical pressure is applied across

===== PDF-side 460 =====

12-19
6.0
5.5
5.0
4.5
4.0
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110  120
Volts (E)
Amperes (I)
R = 20 Ohms
(Constant)
E
I     X     R
E
I     X      R
E
I     X     R
A
B
C
To find I (amperes), 
place thumb over I 
and divide E by R 
as indicated.
To find R (ohms), 
place thumb over 
R and divide as 
indicated.
To find E (volts), 
place thumb over 
E and multiply as 
indicated.
Figure 12-39. Voltage vs. current in a constant-resistance circuit.
Figure 12-40. Ohm’ s law chart.
the two ends of the conductor that is 1 foot in length, 
and the resistance to the movement of free electrons 
is assumed to be 1 ohm, the current flow is limited 
to 1 ampere. If the same size conductor is doubled in 
length, the same electrons set in motion by the 1 volt 
applied now find twice the resistance; consequently, 
the current flow is reduced by one-half.
3. The resistance of a metallic conductor is inversely 
proportional to the cross-sectional area. This area may 
be triangular or even square, but is usually circular. 
If the cross-sectional area of a conductor is doubled, 
the resistance to current flow is reduced in half. This 
is true because of the increased area in which an 
electron can move without collision or capture by an 
atom. Thus, the resistance varies inversely with the 
cross-sectional area of a conductor.
4. The fourth major factor influencing the resistance of a 
conductor is temperature. Although some substances, 
such as carbon, show a decrease in resistance as the 
ambient (surrounding) temperature increases, most 
materials used as conductors increase in resistance as 
temperature increases. The resistance of a few alloys, 
such as constantan and Manganin™, change very little 
as the temperature changes. The amount of increase in 
the resistance of a 1 ohm sample of a conductor, per 
degree rise in temperature above 0° Centigrade (C), the 
assumed standard, is called the temperature coefficient 
of resistance. For each metal, this is a different value. 
For example, for copper the value is approximately 
0.00427 ohm. Thus, a copper wire having a resistance 
of 50 ohms at a temperature of 0 °C has an increase 
in resistance of 50 × 0.00427, or 0.214 ohm, for each 
degree rise in temperature above 0 °C. The temperature 
coefficient of resistance must be considered where there 
is an appreciable change in temperature of a conductor 
during operation. Charts listing the temperature 
coefficient of resistance for different materials are 
available. Figure 12-42 shows a table for “resistivity” 
of some common electric conductors.
The resistance of a material is determined by four properties: 
material, length, area, and temperature. The first three 
properties are related by the following equation at T = 20 °C 
(room temperature):
 (ρ × 1)
AR = 
 Where
 R = resistance in ohms
 ρ = resistivity of the material in circular
 mil-ohms per foot

===== PDF-side 461 =====

12-20
+
+
2 feet
0.5 amp ( 2 ohms)
1 foot
1 amp (1 ohm)
Conductor Material Resistivity (ohm meters @ 20 °C)
 Silver 1.64 × 10-8
 Copper 1.72 × 10-8
 Aluminum 2.83 × 10-8
 Tungsten 5.50 × 10-8
 Nickel 7.80 × 10-8
 Iron 12.0 × 10-8
 Constantan 49.0 × 10-8
 Nichrome II 110 × 10-8
Figure 12-41. Resistance varies with length of conductor. Figure 12-42. Resistivity table.
 l = length of the sample in feet
 A = area in circular mils
Resistance and Relation to Wire Sizing
Circular Conductors (Wires/Cables)
Because it is known that the resistance of a conductor is directly 
proportional to its length, and if we are given the resistance of 
the unit length of wire, we can readily calculate the resistance 
of any length of wire of that particular material having the 
same diameter. Also, because it is known that the resistance of 
a conductor is inversely proportional to its cross-sectional area, 
and if we are given the resistance of a length of wire with unit 
cross-sectional area, we can calculate the resistance of a similar 
length of wire of the same material with any cross-sectional 
area. Therefore, if we know the resistance of a given conductor, 
we can calculate the resistance for any conductor of the same 
material at the same temperature. From the relationship:
  (ρ × 1)
AR = 
It can also be written:
  R1
R2
 =  11
12
 =  A1
A2
 
If we have a conductor that is 1 meter (m) long with a cross-
sectional area of 1 (millimeter) mm2 and has a resistance of 
0.017 ohm, what is the resistance of 50 m of wire from the 
same material but with a cross-sectional area of 0.25 mm2?
  R1
R2
 =  11
12
 =  A1
A2
 
 R 2 = 0.017 Ω  ×  50 m
1 m  ×    1 mm2
0.25 mm2  = 3.4 Ω
While the SI units are commonly used in the analysis of 
electric circuits, electrical conductors in North America are 
still being manufactured using the foot as the unit length and 
the mil (one thousandth of an inch) as the unit of diameter. 
Before using the equation R = (ρ × l)⁄A to calculate the resistance 
of a conductor of a given American wire gauge (AWG) size, 
the cross-sectional area in square meters must be determined 
using the conversion factor 1 mil = 0.0254 mm. The most 
convenient unit of wire length is the foot. Using these 
standards, the unit of size is the mil-foot. Thus, a wire has 
unit size if it has a diameter of 1 mil and length of 1 foot.
In the case of using copper conductors, we are spared the 
task of tedious calculations by using a table as shown in 
Figure 12-43. Note that cross-sectional dimensions listed on 
the table are such that each decrease of one gauge number 
equals a 25 percent increase in the cross-sectional area. 
Because of this, a decrease of three gauge numbers represents 
an increase in cross-sectional area of approximately 2:1. 
Likewise, change of ten wire gauge numbers represents a 10:1 
change in cross-sectional area—also, by doubling the cross-
sectional area of the conductor, the resistance is cut in half. 
A decrease of three wire gauge numbers cuts the resistance 
of the conductor of a given length in half.
Rectangular Conductors (Bus Bars)
To compute the cross-sectional area of a conductor in square 
mils, the length in mils of one side is squared. In the case of a 
rectangular conductor, the length of one side is multiplied by 
the length of the other. For example, a common rectangular 
bus bar (large, special conductor) is 3⁄8 inch thick and 4 inches 
wide. The 3⁄8-inch thickness may be expressed as 0.375 
inch. Since 1,000 mils equal 1 inch, the width in inches can 
be converted to 4,000 mils. The cross-sectional area of the 
rectangular conductor is found by converting 0.375 to mils 
(375 mils × 4,000 mils = 1,500,000 square mils).
Power and Energy
Power in an Electrical Circuit
This section covers power in the DC circuit and energy 
consumption. Whether referring to mechanical or electrical 
systems, power is defined as the rate of energy consumption

===== PDF-side 462 =====

12-21
AWG Number Diameter in mils Ohms per 1,000 ft.
 0000 460.0  0.04901
 000 409.6  0.06180
 00 364.8  0.07793
 0 324.9  0.09827
 1 289.3  0.1239
 2 257.6  0.1563
 3 229.4  0.1970
 4 204.3  0.2485
 5 181.9  0.3133
 6 162.0  0.3951
 8 128.5  0.6282
 10 101.9  0.9989
 12 80.81  1.588
 14 64.08  2.525
 16 50.82  4.016
 18 40.30  6.385
 20 31.96  10.15
 22 25.35  16.14
 24 20.10  25.67
 26 15.94  40.81
 28 12.64  64.9
 30 10.03  103.2
Figure 12-43. Conversion table when using copper conductors.
or conversion within that system—that is, the amount of 
energy used or converted in a given amount of time.
From the scientific discipline of physics, the fundamental 
expression for power is:
 
 E
tP = 
 Where
 P = power measured in watts (W)
 E  = energy (E is a script E) measured in joules (J)
 and
 t = time measured in seconds (s)
The unit measurement for power is the watt (W), which refers 
to a rate of energy conversion of 1 joule (J)/second. Therefore, 
the number of joules consumed in 1 second is equal to the 
number of watts. A simple example is given below.
Suppose 300 joules of energy is consumed in 10 seconds. 
What would be the power in watts?
 General formula  energy
timeP = 
    300 J
10 sP = 
   P = 30 W  
The watt is named for James Watt, the inventor of the steam 
engine. Watt devised an experiment to measure the power of 
a horse in order to find a means of measuring the mechanical 
power of his steam engine. One horsepower is required to 
move 33,000 pounds 1 foot in 1 minute. Since power is the 
rate of doing work, it is equivalent to the work divided by 
time. Stated as a formula, this is:
  
   33,000 ft-lb
60 sPower = 
          
          P = 550 ft-lb/s 
Electrical power can be rated in a similar manner. For 
example, an electric motor rated as a 1 horsepower motor 
requires 746 watts of electrical energy.
Power Formulas Used in the Study of Electricity 
When current flows through a resistive circuit, energy is 
dissipated in the form of heat. Recall that voltage can be 
expressed in the terms of energy and charge as given in the 
expression:
  E
QE = 
 Where 
 E = potential difference in volts
 E  = energy expanded or absorbed in joules (J)
 Q = charge measured in coulombs
Current I, can also be expressed in terms of charge and time 
as given by the expression:
 Charge
TimeCurrent = 
                     or
  Q
TI = 
 Where:
 I = current in amperes (A)
 Q = charge in coulombs (C)
 T = time
When voltage W⁄Q and current Q⁄t are multiplied, the charge 
Q is divided out leaving the basic expression from physics:
 E × I =  E
Q  ×  E
t  =  E
t  = power
For a simple DC electrical system, power dissipation

===== PDF-side 463 =====

12-22
can then be given by the equation:
 
General Power Formula  P = I (E)
 
 Where    
 P = Power
 I = Current
 E = V olts
If a circuit has a known voltage of 24 volts and a current of 
2 amps, then the power in the circuit is:
 P = I (E)
 P = 2A (24V)
 P = 48W
Now recall Ohm’s Laws that state E = I(R). If we now 
substitute IR for E in the general formula, we get a formula 
that uses only current I and resistance R to determine the 
power in a circuit.
 P = I (IR)
Second Form of Power Equation 
 P = I2R
If a circuit has a known current of 2 amps and a resistance 
of 100 Ω, then the power in the circuit is:
 P = I2R
 P = (2A)2 100 Ω
 P = 400 W
Using Ohm’s Law, which can be stated as I = E⁄R, we can again 
make a substitution such that power can be determined by 
knowing only the voltage (E) and resistance (R) of the circuit.
  E
RP = ( )(E) 
Third Form of Power Equation
  E2
RP = 
If a circuit has a known voltage of 24 volts and a resistance 
of 20 Ω, then the power in the circuit is:
   E2
RP = 
   (24 V)2
20 ΩP = 
  P = 28.8 W
Power in a Series & Parallel Circuit
The total power dissipated in both a series and parallel circuit 
is equal to the sum of the power dissipated in each resistor 
in the circuit. Power is simply additive and can be stated as:
PT = P1 + P2 + P3 + ……PN
Figure 12-44  provides a summary of all the possible 
transpositions of the Ohm’s Law formula and the power 
formula.
Energy in an Electrical Circuit
Energy is defined as the ability to do work. Because power 
is the rate of energy usage, power used over a span of time 
is actually energy consumption. If power and time are 
multiplied together, we get energy.
The joule is defined as a unit of energy. There is another unit 
of measure which is perhaps more familiar. Because power 
is expressed in watts and time in seconds, a unit of energy 
can be called a watt-second (Ws) or more recognizable from 
the electric bill, a kilowatt-hour (kWh). Refer to Chapter 5, 
Physics, for further discussion on energy. 
Sources of Electricity
Electrical energy can be produced in a number of methods. The 
four most common are pressure, chemical, thermal, and light.
Pressure Source
This form of electrical generation is commonly known as 
piezoelectric (piezo or piez taken from Greek: to press; 
pressure; to squeeze) is a result of the application of 
mechanical pressure on a dielectric or non-conducting crystal. 
The most common piezoelectric materials used today are 
crystalline quartz and Rochelle salt. However, Rochelle salt is 
being superseded by other materials, such as barium titanate.
The application of a mechanical stress produces an electric 
polarization, which is proportional to this stress. This 
polarization establishes a voltage across the crystal. If a 
circuit is connected across the crystal, a flow of current can 
be observed when the crystal is loaded (pressure is applied). 
An opposite condition can occur, where an application of a 
voltage between certain faces of the crystal can produce a 
mechanical distortion. This effect is commonly referred to 
as the piezoelectric effect.
Piezoelectric materials are used extensively in transducers 
for converting a mechanical strain into an electrical signal. 
Such devices include microphones, phonograph pickups, and 
vibration-sensing elements. The opposite effect, in which a 
mechanical output is derived from an electrical signal input, 
is also widely used in headphones and loudspeakers.

===== PDF-side 464 =====

12-23
E2
R
E2 P
I2R
IE
IR
RE
IP
I2P
EP
IE
RP
PR
P I
E R
Figure 12-44. Ohm’ s Law formula.
Chemical Source
Chemical energy can be converted into electricity; the 
most common form of this is the battery. A primary battery 
produces electricity using two different metals in a chemical 
solution like alkaline electrolyte, where a chemical reaction 
between the metals and the chemicals frees more electrons 
in one metal than in the other. One terminal of the battery is 
attached to one of the metals, such as zinc; the other terminal 
is attached to the other metal, such as manganese oxide. The 
end that frees more electrons develops a positive charge 
and the other end develops a negative charge. If a wire is 
attached from one end of the battery to the other, electrons 
flow through the wire to balance the electrical charge.
Thermal Sources
The most common source of thermal electricity found in the 
aviation industry comes from thermocouples. Thermocouples 
are widely used as temperature sensors. They are cheap 
and interchangeable, have standard connectors, and can 
measure a wide range of temperatures. Thermocouples 
are pairs of dissimilar metal wires joined at least at one 
end, which generate a voltage between the two wires that 
is proportional to the temperature at the junction. This is 
called the Seebeck effect, in honor of Thomas Seebeck who 
first noticed the phenomena in 1821. It was also noticed 
that different metal combinations have a different voltage 
difference. Thermocouples are used to measure cylinder head 
temperatures and Turbine Inlet Temperature (TIT).
Light Sources
A solar cell or a photovoltaic cell is a device that converts 
light energy into electricity. Fundamentally, the device 
contains certain chemical elements that, when exposed to 
light energy, release electrons.
Photons in sunlight are taken in by the solar panel or cell, 
where they are absorbed by semiconducting materials, such 
as silicon. Electrons in the cell are broken loose from their 
atoms, allowing them to flow through the material to produce 
electricity. The complementary positive charges that are also 
created are called holes (absence of electron) and flow in the 
direction opposite of the electrons in a silicon solar panel.
Solar cells have many applications and have historically been 
used in earth orbiting satellites or space probes, handheld 
calculators, and wrist watches.
Schematic Representation of Electrical 
Components
The schematic is the most common place where the technician 
finds electronic symbols. The schematic is a diagram that 
depicts the interconnection and logic of an electronic or 
electrical circuit. Many symbols are employed for use in 
the schematic drawings, blueprints, and illustrations. This 
section briefly outlines some of the more common symbols 
and explains how to interpret them.
Conductors
The schematic depiction of a conductor is simple enough. 
This is generally shown as a solid line. However, the line 
types may vary depending on who drew the schematics and 
what exactly the line represents. While the solid line is used 
to depict the wire or conductor, schematics used for aircraft 
modifications can also use other line types, such as a dashed 
to represent “existing” wires prior to modification and solid 
lines for “new” wires.
There are two methods employed to show wire crossovers 
and wire connections. Figure 12-45 shows the two methods 
of drawing wires that cross: version A and version B. 
Figure 12-46 shows the two methods for drawing wire 
that connect version A and version B. If version A in 
Figure 12-45 is used to depict crossovers, then version A for 
wire connections in Figure 12-46 is used. The same can then 
be said about the use of version B methods. The technician 
encounters both in common use.
Figure 12-47 shows a few examples of the more common 
wire types that the technician encounters in schematics. They 
are the single wire, single shielded, shielded twisted pair or 
double, and the shielded triple. This is not an exhaustive list of 
wire types but a fair representation of how they are depicted. 
Figure 12-47 also shows the wires having a wire number. 
These are shown for the sake of illustration and vary from one

===== PDF-side 465 =====

12-24
A B
A B
Single
wire
Conductor
Typical Wire No.
SX001A22
12PB501-*APJ356
NM200A22
RF300A22
Shielded
single wire
Shielded
double
wire
Shielded
triple
wire
Shielding
Figure 12-45. Unconnected crossover wires.
Figure 12-46. Connected wires.
Figure 12-47. Common wire types.
installation agency to another. For further understanding of a 
wire numbering system, consult the appropriate wiring guide 
published by the agency that drew the prints. Regardless of 
the specifics of the wire numbering system, organizations 
that exercise professional wiring practices have the installed 
wire marked in some manner. This is an aid to the technician 
who has to troubleshoot or modify the system at a later date.
Types of Resistors
Fixed Resistor
Fixed resistors have built into the design a means of opposing 
current. [Figure 12-48] The general use of a resistor in a 
circuit is to limit the amount of current flow. There are a 
number of methods used in construction and sizing of a 
resistor that control properties, such as resistance value, the 
precision of the resistance value, and the ability to dissipate 
heat. While in some applications the purpose of the resistive 
element is used to generate heat, such as in propeller anti-ice 
boots, heat typically is the unwanted loss of energy.
Carbon Composition
The carbon composed resistor is constructed from a mixture 
of finely grouped carbon/graphite, an insulation material 
for filler, and a substance for binding the material together. 
The amount of graphite in relation to the insulation material 
determines the ohmic or resistive value of the resistor. This 
mixture is compressed into a rod, which is fitted with axial 
leads or “pigtails.” The finished product is sealed in an 
insulating coating for isolation and physical protection.
There are other types of fixed resistors in common use. 
Included in this group are:
• Carbon film
• Metal-oxide
• Metal film
• Metal glaze
The construction of a film resistor is accomplished by 
depositing a resistive material evenly on a ceramic rod. This 
resistive material can be graphite for the carbon film resistor, 
nickel chromium for the metal film resistor, metal and glass 
for the metal glaze resistor, and metal and an insulating oxide 
for the metal-oxide resistor.
Resistor Ratings
Color Code
It is very difficult to manufacture a resistor to an exact standard 
of ohmic values. Fortunately, most circuit requirements are 
not extremely critical. For many uses, the actual resistance in 
ohms can be 20 percent higher or lower than the value marked 
on the resistor without causing difficulty. The percentage 
variation between the marked value and the actual value of 
a resistor is known as the “tolerance” of a resistor. A resistor 
coded for a 5 percent tolerance is not more than 5 percent 
higher or lower than the value indicated by the color code.
The resistor color code is made up of a group of colors, 
numbers, and tolerance values. Each color is represented by a 
number, and in most cases, by a tolerance value. [Figure 12-49]
When the color code is used with the end-to-center band marking 
system, the resistor is normally marked with bands of color at 
one end of the resistor. The body or base color of the resistor 
has nothing to do with the color code, and in no way indicates 
a resistance value. To prevent confusion, this body is never 
the same color as any of the bands indicating resistance value.

===== PDF-side 466 =====

12-25
Figure 12-48. Fixed resistor schematic.
Resistor color code
Color Number Tolerance
 Black  0  —
 Brown  1  1%
 Red  2  2%
 Orange  3  3%
 Yellow  4  4%
 Green  5  5%
 Blue  6  6%
 Violet  7  7%
 Gray  8  8%
 White  9  9%
 Gold — 5%
 Silver — 10%
 No color — 20%
Figure 12-49. Resistor color code.
Color Band Decoding
When the end-to-center band marking system is used, either 
three or four bands mark the resistor.
1. The first color band (nearest the end of the resistor) 
indicates the first digit in the numerical resistance 
value. This band is never gold or silver in color.
2. The second color band always indicates the second 
digit of ohmic value. It is never gold or silver in color. 
[Figure 12-50]
3. The third color band indicates the number of zeros to 
be added to the two digits derived from the first and 
second bands, except in the following two cases:
(a) If the third band is gold in color, the first two 
digits must be multiplied by 10 percent.
(b) If the third band is silver in color, the first two 
digits must be multiplied by 1 percent.
4. If there is a fourth color band, it is used as a multiplier 
for percentage of tolerance, as indicated in the color 
code chart in Figure 12-49. If there is no fourth band, 
the tolerance is understood to be 20 percent.
Figure 12-50 illustrates the rules for reading the resistance 
value of a resistor marked with the end-to-center band system. 
This resistor is marked with three bands of color, which must 
be read from the end toward the center.
There is no fourth color band; therefore, the tolerance is 
understood to be 20 percent. 20 percent of 250,000 Ω, equals 
50,000 Ω.
Since the 20 percent tolerance is plus or minus, 
 Maximum resistance
 = 250,000 Ω + 50,000 Ω
 = 300,000 Ω
 Minimum resistance
 = 250,000 Ω − 50,000 Ω
 = 200,000 Ω
The following paragraphs provide a few extra examples of 
resistor color band decoding. Figure 12-51 contains a resistor 
with another set of colors. This resistor code should be read 
as follows:
The resistance of this resistor is 86,000 ±10 percent ohms. 
The maximum resistance is 94,600 ohms, and the minimum 
resistance is 77,400 ohms.
Another example is the resistance of the resistor in Figure 12-52 
is 960 ±5 percent ohms. The maximum resistance is 1,008 
ohms, and the minimum resistance is 912 ohms. 
Sometimes circuit considerations dictate that the tolerance 
must be smaller than 20 percent. Figure 12-53  shows 
an example of a resistor with a 2 percent tolerance. The 
resistance value of this resistor is 2,500 ±2 percent ohms. 
The maximum resistance is 2,550 ohms, and the minimum 
resistance is 2,450 ohms.
Figure 12-54 contains an example of a resistor with a black 
third color band. The color code value of black is zero, and 
the third band indicates the number of zeros to be added to 
the first two digits.
In this case, a zero number of zeros must be added to the first 
two digits; therefore, no zeros are added. Thus, the resistance 
value is 10 ±1 percent ohms. The maximum resistance is 
10.1 ohms, and the minimum resistance is 9.9 ohms. There 
are two exceptions to the rule stating the third color band 
indicates the number of zeros. The first of these exceptions 
is illustrated in Figure 12-55. When the third band is gold in 
color, it indicates that the first two digits must be multiplied 
by 10 percent. The value of this resistor in this case is:
 10 × 0.10 ±2% = 1 = 0.02 ohms
When the third band is silver, as is the case in Figure 12-56, 
the first two digits must be multiplied by 1 percent. The value

===== PDF-side 467 =====

12-26
Gray
Blue Orange
Silver
8 6 000 10%
White
Blue Brown
Gold
9 6 0 5%
Red
Green Red
Red
2 5 00 2%
Brown
Black Black
Brown
1 0 1%
Figure 12-51. Resistor color code example.
Figure 12-52. Resistor color code example.
Figure 12-53. Resistor with two percent tolerance.
Figure 12-54. Resistor with black third color band.
1st Band
2nd Band
3rd Band
Red Green Yellow
Color Numerical Value Significance
1st band — red 2 1st digit
2nd band — green 5 2nd digit
3rd band — yellow 4 No. of zeroes to add
Figure 12-50. End-to-center band marking.
Yellow
Green Silver (Multiplier)
Silver
4 5 1% 10%
Brown
Black Gold (Multiplier)
Red
1 0 10% 2%
Figure 12-56. Resistor with a silver third band.
Figure 12-55. Resistor with gold third band.
of the resistor is 0.45 ±10 percent ohms.
Wire-Wound
Wire-wound resistors typically control large amounts of 
current and have high power ratings. Resistors of this type are 
constructed by winding a resistance wire around an insulating 
rod usually made of porcelain. The windings are coated with an 
insulation material for physical protection and heat conduction. 
Both ends of the windings are connected to terminals, which 
are used to connect the resistor to a circuit. [Figure 12-57]
A wire-wound resistor with tap is a special type of fixed 
resistor that can be adjusted. These adjustments can be 
made by moving a slide bar tap or by moving the tap to a 
preset incremental position. While the tap may be adjustable, 
the adjustments are usually set at the time of installation 
to a specific value and then operated in service as a fixed 
resistor. Another type of wire-wound resistor is constructed 
of Manganin wire, used when high precision is needed.
Variable Resistors
Variable resistors are constructed so that the resistive value 
can be changed easily. This adjustment can be manual or 
automatic, and the adjustments can be made while the system 
that it is connected to is in operation. There are two basic 
types of manual adjustors: the rheostat and the potentiometer.
Rheostat
A rheostat is a variable resistor used to vary the amount of 
current flowing in a circuit. [Figure 12-58] Figure 12-59 
shows a rheostat connected in series with an ordinary 
resistance in a series circuit. As the slider arm moves 
from point A to B, the amount of rheostat resistance (AB) 
is increased. Since the rheostat resistance and the fixed 
resistance are in series, the total resistance in the circuit also 
increases, and the current in the circuit decreases. On the 
other hand, if the slider arm is moved toward point A, the total 
resistance decreases and the current in the circuit increases.

===== PDF-side 468 =====

12-27
Figure 12-57. Wire-wound resistors.
Figure 12-58. Rheostat schematic symbol.
Potentiometer
The potentiometer is considered a three-terminal device. 
[Figure 12-60] As illustrated, terminals 1 and 2 have the 
entire value of the potentiometer resistance between them. 
Terminal 3 is the wiper or moving contact. Through this wiper, 
the resistance between terminals 1 and 3 or terminals 2 and 3 
can be varied. While the rheostat is used to vary the current 
in a circuit, the potentiometer is used to vary the voltage in a 
circuit. A typical use for this component can be found in the 
volume controls on an audio panel and input devices for flight 
data recorders, among many other applications.
In Figure 12-61A, a potentiometer is used to obtain a variable 
voltage from a fixed voltage source to apply to an electrical 
load. The voltage applied to the load is the voltage between 
points 2 and 3. When the slider arm is moved to point 1, the 
entire voltage is applied to the electrical device (load); when 
the arm is moved to point 3, the voltage applied to the load 
is zero. The potentiometer makes possible the application of 
any voltage between zero and full voltage to the load.
The current flowing through the circuit of Figure 12-61  
leaves the negative terminal electron flow of the battery and 
divides one part flowing through the lower portion of the 
potentiometer (points 3 to 2) and the other part through the 
load. Both parts combine at point 2 and flow through the 
upper portion of the potentiometer (points 2 to 1) back to the 
positive terminal of the battery. In View B of Figure 12-61, a 
potentiometer and its schematic symbol are shown.
In choosing a potentiometer resistance, the amount of current 
drawn by the load should be considered, as well as the current 
flow through the potentiometer at all settings of the slider 
arm. The energy of the current through the potentiometer is 
dissipated in the form of heat.
It is important to keep this wasted current as small as 
possible by making the resistance of the potentiometer as 
large as practicable. In most cases, the resistance of the 
potentiometer can be several times the resistance of the load. 
Figure 12-62 shows how a potentiometer can be wired to 
function as a rheostat.
Linear Potentiometers
In a linear potentiometer, the resistance between both terminal 
and the wiper varies linearly with the position of the wiper. 
To illustrate, one quarter of a turn on the potentiometer results 
in one quarter of the total resistance. The same relationship 
exists when one-half or three-quarters of potentiometer 
movement. [Figure 12-63] 
Tapered Potentiometers
Resistance varies in a nonlinear manner in the case of the 
tapered potentiometer. [Figure 12-64]  Keep in mind that 
one-half of full potentiometer travel does not necessarily 
correspond to one-half the total resistance of the potentiometer.
Thermistors
The thermistor is a type of a variable resistor that is 
temperature sensitive. [Figure 12-65] This component 
has a negative temperature coefficient, which means that 
as the sensed temperature increases, the resistance of the 
thermistor decreases.
Photoconductive Cells
The photoconductive cell is similar to the thermistor. Like the 
thermistor, it has a negative temperature coefficient. Unlike 
the thermistor, the resistance is controlled by light intensity. 
This kind of component can be found in radio control heads 
where the intensity of the ambient light is sensed through 
the photoconductive cell resulting in the backlighting of the 
control heads to adjust to the flight deck lighting conditions. 
[Figure 12-66]
Circuit Protection Devices
Perhaps the most serious trouble in a circuit is a direct short. 
The term “direct short” describes a situation in which some 
point in the circuit, where full system voltage is present, 
comes in direct contact with the ground or return side of the 
circuit. This establishes a path for current flow that contains 
no resistance other than that present in the wires carrying the 
current, and these wires have very little resistance.
Most wires used in aircraft electrical circuits are small 
gauge, and their current carrying capacity is quite limited. 
The size of the wires used in any given circuit is determined

===== PDF-side 469 =====

12-28
A
B
1
2
3
Load
Shaft
Terminals
Resistive strip
Wiper
Rotary potentiometer construction
1
2
3
A
25%
70 Ω
30 Ω
100 Ω
B
50%
30 Ω
70 Ω
100 Ω
C
75%
10 Ω
90 Ω
100 Ω
Figure 12-61. Potentiometer and schematic symbol.
Figure 12-62. Potentiometer wired to function as rheostat.
Figure 12-63. Linear potentiometer schematic.
AB
1
2
3
Figure 12-59. Rheostat connected in series.
Figure 12-60. Potentiometer schematic symbol.
by the amount of current the wires are expected to carry 
under normal operating conditions. Any current flow in 
excess of normal, such as the case of a direct short, would 
cause a rapid generation of heat. If the excessive current 
flow caused by the short is left unchecked, the heat in the 
wire could cause a portion of the wire to melt and at the 
very least, open the circuit.
To protect aircraft electrical systems from damage and failure 
caused by excessive current, several kinds of protective 
devices are installed in the systems. Fuses, circuit breakers, 
thermal protectors, and arc fault circuit breakers are used 
for this purpose.
Circuit protective devices, as the name implies, all have a 
common purpose—to protect the units and the wires in the 
circuit. Some are designed primarily to protect the wiring 
and to open the circuit in such a way as to stop the current 
flow when the current becomes greater than the wires can 
safely carry. Other devices are designed to protect a unit in 
the circuit by stopping the current flow to it when the unit 
becomes excessively warm.
Fuse
Fuses are used to protect the circuit from over current 
conditions. [Figure 12-67A] The fuse is installed in the circuit 
so that all the current in the circuit passes through it. In most 
fuses, the strip of metal is made of an alloy of tin and bismuth, 
which melts and opens the circuit when the current exceeds

===== PDF-side 470 =====

12-29
T
A
25%
70 Ω
30 Ω
100 Ω
B
50%
30 Ω
70 Ω
100 Ω
C
75%
10 Ω
90 Ω
100 Ω
Figure 12-65. Schematic symbol for thermistor.
Figure 12-66. Photoconductive cell schematic symbol component.
Figure 12-64. Tapered potentiometer.
the rated capacity of the fuse. For example, if a 5-amp fuse 
is placed into a circuit, the fuse allows currents up to 5 amps 
to pass. Because the fuse is intended to protect the circuit, 
it is quite important that its capacity match the needs of the 
circuit in which it is used.
When replacing a fuse, consult the applicable manufacturer’s 
instructions to be sure a fuse of the correct type and capacity 
is installed. Fuses are installed in two types of fuse holders 
in aircraft. “Plug-in holders” or in-line holders are used for 
small and low capacity fuses. “Clip” type holders are used 
for heavy high capacity fuses and current limiters.
Current Limiter
The current limiter is very much like the fuse. However, the 
current limiter link is usually made of copper and will stand 
a considerable overload for a short period of time. Like the 
fuse, it opens up in an over current condition in heavy current 
circuits such as 30 amp or greater. These are used primarily 
to sectionalize an aircraft circuit or bus. Once the limiter is 
opened, it must be replaced. The schematic symbol for the 
current limiter shows two triangles pointing to each other 
with a line on both sides of the triangles. [Figure 12-67B].
Circuit Breaker
The circuit breaker is commonly used in place of a fuse and is 
designed to break the circuit and stop the current flow when 
the current exceeds a predetermined value. Unlike the fuse, 
the circuit breaker can be reset; whereas the fuse or current 
limiter must be replaced. [Figure 12-68] 
There are several types of circuit breakers in general use in 
aircraft systems. One is a magnetic type. When excessive 
current flows in the circuit, it makes an electromagnet strong 
enough to move a small armature, which trips the breaker. 
Another type is the thermal overload switch or breaker. 
This consists of a bimetallic strip which, when it becomes 
overheated from excessive current, bends away from a catch 
on the switch lever and permits the switch to trip open.
Most circuit breakers must be reset by hand. If the overload 
condition still exists, the circuit breaker trips again to prevent 
damage to the circuit. At this point, it is usually not advisable 
to continue resetting the circuit breaker, but to initiate 
troubleshooting to determine the cause. Repeated resetting 
of a circuit breaker can lead to circuit or component damage 
or worse, the possibility of a fire or explosion. Automatic 
reset type circuit breakers are not allowed in aircraft. Circuit 
breakers are commonly grouped on a circuit breaker panel that 
is accessible to the flight crew. Figure 12-69 shows a circuit 
breaker and a circuit breaker panel.
Arc Fault Circuit Breaker
In recent years, the arc fault circuit breaker has begun to 
provide an additional layer of protection beyond that of the 
thermal protection already provided by conventional circuit 
breakers. The arc fault circuit breaker monitors the circuit 
for an electrical arcing signature, which can indicate possible 
wiring faults and unsafe conditions. These conditions can 
lead to fires or loss of power to critical systems. The arc fault 
circuit breaker is only beginning to make an appearance in 
the aircraft industry and is not widely used like the thermal 
type of circuit breaker.
Thermal Protectors
A thermal protector, or switch, is used to protect a motor. It 
is designed to open the circuit automatically whenever the 
temperature of the motor becomes excessively high. It has 
two positions—open and closed. The most common use for 
a thermal switch is to keep a motor from overheating. If a

===== PDF-side 471 =====

12-30
Figure 12-68. Schematic symbol for circuit breaker.
A
B
Figure 12-67. Schematic symbol for fuse (A) and current limiter (B).
malfunction in the motor causes it to overheat, the thermal 
switch breaks the circuit intermittently.
The thermal switch contains a bimetallic disk, or strip, that 
bends and breaks the circuit when it is heated. This occurs 
because one of the metals expands more than the other when 
they are subjected to the same temperature. When the strip 
or disk cools, the metals contract and the strip returns to its 
original position and closes the circuit.
Control Devices
Components in the electrical circuits are typically not all 
intended to operate continuously or automatically. Most of 
them are meant to operate at certain times, under certain 
conditions, to perform very definite functions. There must 
be some means of controlling their operation. Either a 
switch, or a relay, or both may be included in the circuit 
for this purpose.
Switches
Switches control the current flow in most aircraft electrical 
circuits. A switch is used to start, to stop, or to change the 
direction of the current flow in the circuit. The switch in 
each circuit must be able to carry the normal current of the 
circuit and must be insulated heavily enough for the voltage 
of the circuit. Figure 12-70 shows various switches used in 
aircraft electrical systems.
An understanding of some basic definitions of the switch is 
necessary before any of the switch types are discussed. The 
number of poles, throws, and positions they have designates 
toggle switches, as well as some other type of switches.
Pole—the switch’s movable blade or contactor. The number 
of poles is equal to the number of circuits, or paths for 
current flow, that can be completed through the switch at 
any one time.
Throw—indicates the number of circuits, or paths for current, 
that it is possible to complete through the switch with each 
pole or contactor.
Positions—indicates the number of places at which the 
operating device (toggle, plunger, and so forth) comes to 
rest and at the same time open or close one or more circuits.
Toggle Switch
Single-Pole, Single-Throw (SPST)
The single-pole, single-throw (SPST) switch allows a 
connection between two contacts. One of two conditions 
exist. Either the circuit is open in one position or closed in 
the other position. [Figure 12-71]
Single-Pole, Double-Throw (SPDT)
The single-pole, double-throw (SPDT) switch is shown in 
Figure 12-72. With this switch, contact between one contact 
can be made between one contact and the other.
Double-Pole, Single-Throw (DPST)
The double-pole, single-throw (DPST) switch connection 
can be made between one set of contacts and either of two 
other sets of contacts. [Figure 12-73]
Double-Pole, Double-Throw (DPDT)
The schematic symbol for the double-pole, double-throw 
(DPDT) switch is shown in Figure 12-74. This type of switch 
makes a connection from one set of contacts to either of two 
other sets of contacts.
A toggle switch that is spring-loaded to the OFF position

===== PDF-side 472 =====

12-31
Figure 12-69.  Circuit breaker assembly for aircraft electrical 
system.
Figure 12-70. Various types of switches used in modern aircraft.
and must be held in the ON position to complete the circuit 
is a momentary contact two-position switch. One that comes 
to rest at either of two positions, opening the circuit in one 
position and closing it in another, is a two-position switch. A 
toggle switch that comes to rest at any one of three positions 
is a three-position switch.
A switch that stays open, except when it is held in the closed 
position, is a normally open switch (usually identified as 
NO). One that stays closed, except when it is held in the 
open position is a normally closed switch (NC). Both kinds 
are spring loaded to their normal position and return to that 
position as soon as they are released.
Locking toggles require the operator to pull out on the switch 
toggle before moving it in to another position. Once in the new 
position, the switch toggle is release back into a lock, which 
then prevents the switch from inadvertently being moved.
Microswitches
A microswitch opens or closes a circuit with a very small 
movement of the tripping device ( 1⁄16 inch or less). This is 
what gives the switch its name, since micro means small.
Microswitches are usually pushbutton switches. They are 
used primarily as limit switches to provide automatic control 
of landing gears, actuator motors, and the like. Figure 12-75 
shows a normally closed microswitch in cross-section and 
illustrates how these switches operate. When the operating 
plunger is pressed in, the spring and the movable contact are 
pushed, opening the contacts and the circuit. Figure 12-76 
shows a pushbutton microswitch.
Rotary Selector Switches
A rotary selector switch takes the place of several switches. 
When the knob of the switch is rotated, the switch opens one 
circuit and closes another. Ignition switches and voltmeter 
selector switches are typical examples of this kind of switch. 
[Figure 12-77]
Pushbutton Switches
Pushbutton switches have one stationary contact and one

===== PDF-side 473 =====

12-32
Figure 12-74. Double-pole, double-throw switch schematic symbol.
Figure 12-72. Single-pole, double-throw switch schematic symbol.
Figure 12-73. Double-pole, single-throw switch schematic symbol.
Figure 12-71. Single-pole, single-throw switch schematic symbol.
movable contact. The movable contact is attached to the 
pushbutton. The pushbutton is either an insulator itself or is 
insulated from the contact. This switch is spring loaded and 
designed for momentary contact.
Lighted Pushbutton Switches
Another more common switch found in today’s aircraft is 
the lighted pushbutton switch. This type of switch takes the 
form of a 5⁄8-inch to 1-inch cube with incandescent or LED 
lights to indicate the function of the switch. Switch designs 
come in a number of configurations; the two most common 
are the alternate action and momentary action and usually 
have a two-pole or four-pole switch body. Other less common 
switch actions are the alternate and momentary holding coil 
configurations. The less known holding or latching coil switch 
bodies are designed to have a magnetic coil inside the switch 
body that is energized through two contacts in the base of the 
switch. When the coil is energized and the switch is pressed, 
the switch contacts remain latched until power is removed from 
the coil. This type of design allows for some degree of remote 
control over the switch body. [Figure 12-78] 
The display optics of the lighted pushbutton switch provide the 
crew with a clear message that is visible under a wide range of 
lighting conditions with very high luminance and wide viewing 
angles. While some displays are simply a transparent screen 
that is backlit by an incandescent light, the higher quality 
and more reliable switches are available in sunlight readable 
displays and night vision (NVIS) versions. Due to the sunlight 
environment of the flight deck, displays utilizing standard 
lighting techniques “washout” when viewed in direct sunlight. 
Sunlight readable displays are designed to minimize this effect.
Lighted pushbutton switches can also be used in applications 
where a switch is not required and the optics are only for 
indications. This type of an indicator is commonly called 
an annunciator.

===== PDF-side 474 =====

12-33
Stationary contact
Moveable contact
Operating plunger
Grooved anchor Three-bladed spring
Figure 12-75. Cross-section of a microswitch.
Figure 12-76. Pushbutton microswitch.
Figure 12-77. Rotary switches.
Dual In-Line Parallel (DIP) Switches
The acronym “DIP” switch is defined as Dual In-Line Parallel 
switch in reference to the physical layout. DIP switches are 
commonly found in card cages, and line replaceable units 
(LRU) and are used in most cases to adjust gains, control 
configurations, and so forth. Each one of the switches is 
generally an SPST slide or rocker switch. The technician may 
find this switch in packages ranging in size from DIP2 through 
DIP32. Some of the more common sizes are DIP4 and DIP8.
Switch Guards
Switch guards are covers that protect a switch from 
unintended operation. Prior to the operation of the switch, the 
guard is usually lifted. Switch guards are commonly found 
on systems such as fire suppression and override logics for 
various systems. Figure 12-79A shows a traditional switch 
with a guard while Figure 12-79B shows a pushbutton switch 
with a guard. The guard needs to be moved before the switch 
can be pushed.
Relays
A relay is simply an electromechanical switch where a small 
amount of current can control a large amount of current. 
[Figure 12-80] When a voltage is applied to the coil of the 
relay, the electromagnet is energized due to the current. When 
energized, an electromagnetic field pulls the common (C) or 
arm of the relay down. When the arm or common is pulled 
down, the circuit between the arm and the normally closed 
(NC) contacts is opened and the circuit between the arm and the 
normally open (NO) contacts are closed. When the energizing 
voltage is removed, the spring returns the arm contacts back to 
the normally closed (NC) contacts. The relay usually has two 
connections for the coil. The (+) side is designated as X1 and 
the ground-side of the coil is designated as X2.
Series DC Circuits
The series circuit is the most basic electrical circuit and 
provides a good introduction to basic circuit analysis. The 
series circuit represents the first building block for all of 
the circuits to be studied and analyzed. Figure 12-81 shows 
this simple circuit with nothing more than a voltage source 
or battery, a conductor, and a resistor. This is classified as a 
series circuit because the components are connected end-to-
end, so that the same current flows through each component 
equally. There is only one path for the current to take and the 
battery and resistor are in series with each other. Next is to 
make a few additions to the simple circuit in Figure 12-81.
Figure 12-82 shows an additional resistor and a little more

===== PDF-side 475 =====

12-34
Figure 12-79. (A) Red guarded switch. (B) Pushbutton switch with 
a guard.
A
B
Figure 12-78. Lighted pushbutton switches.
detail regarding the values. With these values, we can now 
begin to learn more about the nature of the circuit. In this 
configuration, there is a 12-volt DC source in series with two 
resistors, R1 = 10 Ω and R2 = 30 Ω. For resistors in a series 
configuration, the total resistance of the circuit is equal to 
the sum of the individual resistors. The basic formula is:
 R T = R1 + R2 + R3 + ………RN
For Figure 12-82, this will be: 
 R T = 10 Ω + 30 Ω
 R T = 40 Ω
Now that the total resistance of the circuit is known, the 
current for the circuit can be determined. In a series circuit, 
the current cannot be different at different points within the 
circuit. The current through a series circuit is always the 
same through each element and at any point. Therefore, the 
current in the simple circuit can now be determined using 
Ohm’s Law:
 Formula, E = I (R)
 Solve for current,  E
RI = 
 The variables, E = 12 V and RT = 40 Ω
 Substitute variables,  12 V
40 ΩI =
 Current in circuits, I = 0.3 A
Ohm’s Law describes a relationship between the variables 
of voltage, current, and resistance that is linear and easy to 
illustrate with a few extra calculations. First is the act of 
changing the total resistance of the circuit while the other 
two remain constant. In this example, the R T of the circuit 
in Figure 12-82 is doubled. 
The effects on the total current in the circuit are:
 Formula, E = I (R)
 Solve for current,  E
RI = 
 The variables, E = 12 V and RT = 80 Ω
 Substitute variables,  12 V
80 ΩI =
 Current in circuits, I = 0.15 A
It can be seen quantitatively and intuitively that when the 
resistance of the circuit is doubled, the current is reduced by 
half the original value.
Next, reduce the RT of the circuit in Figure 12-82 to half of 
its original value. The effects on the total current are:

===== PDF-side 476 =====

12-35
Multiple poles
Schematic Symbol for a Relay
Relay Illustration
A2
B2
A3
A1
B3
B1 C
C
X1
X2
Normally closed (NC)
Normally open (NO)
Magnetic field
Common (C) or Arm
Electromagnet pulls
contact down
NC
NO
NC
NO
X1
X2
X1
X2
(+)
(−)
N
S
+
−
+
12V
30Ω
R2
10Ω
R1
−
Figure 12-80. Basic relay.
Figure 12-81. Simple DC circuit.
Figure 12-82. Simple DC circuit with additional resistor.
 Formula, E = I (R)
 Solve for current,  E
RI =
 The variables, E = 12 V and RT = 20 Ω
 Substitute variables,  12 V
20 ΩI =
 Current in circuits, I = 0.6 A
Voltage Drops & Further Application of Ohm’s Law
The example circuit in Figure 12-83 is used to illustrate the 
idea of voltage drop. It is important to differentiate between 
voltage and voltage drop when discussing series circuits. 
V oltage drop refers to the loss in electrical pressure or emf 
caused by forcing electrons through a resistor. Because there 
are two resistors in the example, there are separate voltage 
drops. Each drop is associated with each individual resistor. 
The amount of electrical pressure required to force a given 
number of electrons through a resistance is proportional to 
the size of the resistor.
In Figure 12-83 , the values used to illustrate the idea of 
voltage drop are:
 Current, I = 1 mA
 R 1 = 1 kΩ
 R 2 = 3 kΩ
 R 3 = 5 kΩ
The voltage drop across each resistor is calculated using 
Ohm’s Law. The drop for each resistor is the product of each 
resistance and the total current in the circuit. Keep in mind 
that the same current flows through series resistor.
 Formula:  E = I (R)
 
 V oltage across R1:  E1 = IT (R1)
  E1 = 1 mA (1 kΩ) = 1 volt
 
 V oltage across R2:  E2 = IT (R2)
  E2 = 1 mA (3 kΩ) = 3 volt
 
 V oltage across R3:  E3 = IT (R3)
  E3 = 1 mA (5 kΩ) = 5 volt
The source voltage can now be determined, which can then 
be used to confirm the calculations for each voltage drop. 
Using Ohm’s Law:
 Formula:  E = I (R)
 
 Source voltage = current × the total resistance
  ES = I (RT)

===== PDF-side 477 =====

12-36
+
5 kΩ
R3
1 kΩ
R1IT 1 mA
3 kΩ
R2
−
Figure 12-83. Example of three resistors in series.
  RT = 1 kΩ + 3 kΩ + 5 kΩ
  RT = 9 kΩ
 
 Now:  ES = I (RT)
 
 Substitute  ES = 1 mA (9 kΩ)
  ES = 9 volts
Simple checks to confirm the calculation and to illustrate 
the concept of the voltage drop add up the individual values 
of the voltage drops and compare them to the results of the 
above calculation.
1 volt + 3 volts + 5 volts = 9 volts
Voltage Sources in Series
A voltage source is an energy source that provides a constant 
voltage to a load. Two or more of these sources in series equals 
the algebraic sum of all the sources connected in series. The 
significance of pointing out the algebraic sum is to indicate that 
the polarity of the sources must be considered when adding up 
the sources. The polarity is indicated by a plus or minus sign 
depending on the source’s position in the circuit.
In Figure 12-84, all of the sources are in the same direction 
in terms of their polarity. All of the voltages have the same 
sign when added up. In the case of Figure 12-84, three cells 
of a value of 1.5 volts are in series with the polarity in the 
same direction. The addition is simple enough:
ET = 1.5v + 1.5v + 1.5v = +4.5 volts
However, in Figure 12-85, one of the three sources has been 
turned around, and the polarity opposes the other two sources. 
Again the addition is simple:
ET = + 1.5v − 1.5v + 1.5v = +1.5 volts
Kirchhoff’s Voltage Law
A law of basic importance to the analysis of an electrical 
circuit is Kirchhoff’s V oltage Law. This law simply states 
that the algebraic sum of all voltages around a closed path 
or loop is zero. Another way of saying it: the sum of all the 
voltage drops equals the total source voltage. A simplified 
formula showing this law is shown below:
 With three resistors in the circuit: 
 E S – E1 – E2 – E3 … –EN = 0 volts
Notice that the sign of the source is opposite that of the 
individual voltage drops. Therefore, the algebraic sum equals 
zero. Written another way:
 E S = E1 + E2 + E3 … +EN
The source voltage equals the sum of the voltage drops. The 
polarity of the voltage drop is determined by the direction 
of the current flow. When going around the circuit, notice 
that the polarity of the resistor is opposite that of the source 
voltage. The positive on the resistor is facing the positive 
on the source, and the negative on the resistor is facing the 
negative on the source.
Figure 12-86 illustrates the very basic idea of Kirchhoff’s 
V oltage Law. There are two resistors in this example. One 
has a drop of 14 volts and the other has a drop of 10 volts. 
The source voltage must equal the sum of the voltage drops 
around the circuit. By inspection, it is easy to determine the 
source voltage as 24 volts.
Figure 12-87  shows a series circuit with three voltage 
drops and one voltage source rated at 24 volts. Two of the 
voltage drops are known. However, the third is not known. 
Using Kirchhoff’s V oltage Law, the third voltage drop can 
be determined.
 With three resistors in the circuit: 
 E S – E1 – E2 – E3 = 0 volts
 Substitute the known values:
 24v – 12v – 10v − E3 = 0
 Collect known values: 2v – E3 = 0
 Solve for the unknown: E3 = 2 volts
Determine the value of E4 in Figure 12-88. For this example, 
I = 200mA. 
First, the voltage drop across each of the individual resistors 
must be determined.
  E1 = I (R1)
  E1 = (200 mA) (10 Ω)

===== PDF-side 478 =====

12-37
+
1.5V
' +'+'
1.5V 1.5V
+
1.5V
− +−+−
1.5V 1.5V
+
ES=24V
−
14V
10V
+−
+−
+
10V
E224VES
−
+
−
+ 12V
E1
−
+
?
E3
−
Figure 12-84. Voltage sources in series add algebraically.
Figure 12-85.  Voltage sources add algebraically; one source 
reversed.
Figure 12-86. Kirchhoff’ s Voltage Law.
Figure 12-87. Determine the unknown voltage drop.
V oltage drop across R1  E1 = 2 volts
  E2 = I (R2)
  E2 = (200 mA) (50 Ω)
V oltage drop across R2  E2 = 10 volts
  E3 = I (R3)
  E3 = (200 mA) (100 Ω)
V oltage drop across R3  E3 = 20 volts
Kirchhoff’s V oltage Law is now employed to determine the 
voltage drop across E4.
 With four resistors in the circuit
 E S – E1 – E2 – E3 – E4 = 0 volts
 Substituting values:
 100v – 2v – 10v – 20v – E4 = 0
 Combine: 68v – E4 = 0  
 Solve for unknown: E4 = 68v
Using Ohm’s Law and substituting in E 4, the value for R 4 
can now be determined.
 Ohm’s Law:  E
IR = 
 Specific application:  E4
IR4 = 
 Substitute values:  68 V
200 mAR4 = 
 Value for R4: R 4 = 340 Ω
Voltage Dividers
V oltage dividers are devices that make it possible to obtain 
more than one voltage from a single power source. A voltage 
divider usually consists of a resistor, or resistors connected in 
series, with fixed or movable contacts and two fixed terminal 
contacts. As current flows through the resistor, different 
voltages can be obtained between the contacts.
Series circuits are used for voltage dividers. The voltage divider 
rule allows the technician to calculate the voltage across one 
or a combination of series resistors without having to first 
calculate the current in the circuit. [Figure 12-89] Because 
the current flows through each resistor, the voltage drops are 
proportional to the ohmic values of the constituent resistors. 
To understand how a voltage divider works, examine 
Figure 12-90 carefully and observe the following:
Each load draws a given amount of current: I 1, I 2, I 3. In

===== PDF-side 479 =====

12-38
+
+
100 Ω
R3
10 Ω
R1
50 Ω
R2
−
+
−
−
+−
?
R4
+−
100 VES
C B A
R1
R2R3
Figure 12-88. Determine the unknown voltage drop.
Figure 12-89. A voltage divider circuit.
addition to the load currents, some bleeder current (IB) flows. 
The current (IT) is drawn from the power source and is equal 
to the sum of all currents.
The voltage at each point is measured with respect to a 
common point. Note that the common point is the point at 
which the total current (IT) divides into separate currents (I1, 
I2, I3). Each part of the voltage divider has a different current 
flowing in it. The current distribution is as follows:
 Through R1 — bleeder current (IB) 
 Through R2 — IB + I1
 Through R3 — IB + I1, + I2
The voltage across each resistor of the voltage divider is:
 90 volts across R1 
 60 volts across R2 
 50 volts across R3
The voltage divider circuit discussed up to this point has had 
one side of the power supply (battery) at ground potential. In 
Figure 12-91, the common reference point (ground symbol) 
has been moved to a different point on the voltage divider. 
The voltage drop across R1 is 20 volts; however, since tap A is 
connected to a point in the circuit that is at the same potential 
as the negative side of the battery, the voltage between tap 
A and the reference point is a negative (−) 20 volts. Since 
resistors R2 and R3 are connected to the positive side of the 
battery, the voltages between the reference point and tap B 
or C are positive.
The following rules provide a simple method of determining 
negative and positive voltages: (1) If current enters a 
resistance flowing away from the reference point, the voltage 
drop across that resistance is positive in respect to the 
reference point; (2) if current flows out of a resistance toward 
the reference point, the voltage drop across that resistance is 
negative in respect to the reference point. It is the location 
of the reference point that determines whether a voltage is 
negative or positive.
Tracing the current flow provides a means for determining 
the voltage polarity. Figure 12-92 shows the same circuit 
with the polarities of the voltage drops and the direction of 
current flow indicated.
The current flows from the negative side of the battery to R1. 
Tap A is at the same potential as the negative terminal of the 
battery since the slight voltage drop caused by the resistance 
of the conductor is disregarded; however, 20 volts of the 
source voltage are required to force the current through R 1 
and this 20-volt drop has the polarity indicated. Stated another 
way, there are only 80 volts of electrical pressure left in the 
circuit on the ground side of R1.
When the current reaches tap B, 30 more volts have been used 
to move the electrons through R 2, and in a similar manner 
the remaining 50 volts are used for R 3. But the voltages 
across R2 and R3 are positive voltages, since they are above 
ground potential.
Figure 12-93 shows the voltage divider used previously. The 
voltage drops across the resistances are the same; however, 
the reference point (ground) has been changed. The voltage 
between ground and tap A is now a negative 100 volts, or 
the applied voltage.
The voltage between ground and tap B is a negative 80 volts, 
and the voltage between ground and tap C is a negative 50 volts.
Determining the Voltage Divider Formula
Figure 12-94 shows the example network of four resistors and 
a voltage source. With a few simple calculations, a formula 
for determining the voltage divisions in a series circuit can 
be determined.
The voltage drop across any particular resistor shall be called 
EX, where the subscript x is the value of a particular resistor 
(1, 2, 3, or 4). Using Ohm’s Law, the voltage drop across any

===== PDF-side 480 =====

12-39
C B A
100 V
R3=100 Ω R2=60 Ω R1=40 Ω
50 V 30 V 20 V
C B A
100 V
R3 R2 R1
+50 V
+ − + − + −
+30 V −20 V
200v
150v
90v
IT
IT
IB I1 I2 I3
R1
R2E
R3
Load Load Load
Figure 12-91. Positive and negative voltage on a voltage divider.
Figure 12-92. Current flow through a voltage divider.
Figure 12-90. A typical voltage divider.
C B A
100 V
R3 R2 R1
50 V 30 V 20 V
Figure 12-93. Voltage divider with changed ground.
resistor can be determined.
 Ohm’s Law:  EX = I (RX)
As seen earlier in the handbook, the current is equal to the 
source voltage divided by the total resistance of the series 
circuit.
 Current:  ES
RT
I = 
The current equation can now be substituted into the
equation for Ohm’s Law.
Substitute:  ES
RT
EX = (  )(RX) 
Algebraic rearrange:  RX
RT
EX = (  )(ES) 
This equation is the general voltage divider formula. The 
explanation of this formula is that the voltage drop across 
any resistor or combination of resistors in a series circuit is 
equal to the ratio of the resistance value to the total resistance, 
divided by the value of the source voltage. Figure 12-95 
illustrates this with a network of three resistors and one 
voltage source.
 
 RX
RT
EX = (  ) ES 
 R T = 100 Ω  + 300 Ω  + 600 Ω  = 1,000 Ω
 E S = 10 V
 V oltage drop over 100 Ω  resistor is:
  100 Ω
1,000 ΩEX = (     ) 100 V 
 E 100Ω  = 10 V
  
 V oltage drop over 300 Ω  resistor is:
 
 300 Ω
1,000 ΩEX = (     ) 100 V 
 E 100 Ω  = 30 V
   
 V oltage drop over 600 Ω  resistor is:
 
 
 600 Ω
1,000 ΩEX = (     ) 100 V 
 E 100Ω  = 60 V

===== PDF-side 481 =====

12-40
+
−
+
−
+
−
+
−
+
−
R1
R2
ES
R3
R4
E3
E4
E2
E1
100 Ω
300 Ω
600 Ω
+
−
+
−
+
−
+
−
R1
R2ES100 v
R3
Figure 12-94. Four resistor voltage divider. Figure 12-95. Network of three resistors and one voltage source.
 Checking work
 E T = 10 V + 30 V + 60 V = 100 V
Parallel DC Circuits
A circuit in which two of more electrical resistances or loads 
are connected across the same voltage source is called a 
parallel circuit. The primary difference between the series 
circuit and the parallel circuit is that more than one path is 
provided for the current in the parallel circuit. Each of these 
parallel paths is called a branch. The minimum requirements 
for a parallel circuit are the following:
• A power source
• Conductors
• A resistance or load for each current path
• Two or more paths for current flow
Figure 12-96 depicts the most basic parallel circuit. Current 
flowing out of the source divides at point A in the diagram 
and goes through R1 and R2. As more branches are added to 
the circuit, more paths for the source current are provided.
Voltage Drops
The first point to understand is that the voltage across any 
branch is equal to the voltage across all of the other branches.
Total Parallel Resistance
The parallel circuit consists of two or more resistors connected 
in such a way as to allow current flow to pass through all of the 
resistors at once. This eliminates the need for current to pass 
one resistor before passing through the next. When resistors 
are connected in parallel, the total resistance of the circuit 
decreases. The total resistance of a parallel combination is 
always less than the value of the smallest resistor in the circuit. 
In the series circuit, the current has to pass through the resistors 
one at a time. This gave a resistance to the current equal the sum 
of all the resistors. In the parallel circuit, the current has several 
resistors that it can pass through, actually reducing the total 
resistance of the circuit in relation to any one resistor value.
The amount of current passing through each resistor varies 
according to its individual resistance. The total current of 
the circuit is the sum of the current in all branches. It can 
be determined by inspection that the total current is greater 
than that of any given branch. Using Ohm’s Law to calculate 
the total resistance based on the applied voltage and the total 
current, it can be determined that the total resistance is less 
than any branch.
An example of this is if there was a circuit with a 100 Ω 
resistor and a 5 Ω resistor; while the exact value must be 
calculated, it still can be said that the combined resistance 
between the two is less than the 5 Ω.
Resistors in Parallel
The formula for the total parallel resistance is as follows:
 1
RT
=         +        +        + ... 1
R1
 1      
R2
 1
R3
 1
RN
If the reciprocal of both sides is taken, then the general 
formula for the total parallel resistance is:
RT =
         +        +        + ... 1
R1
 1      
R2
 1
R3
 1
RN
 1
Two Resistors in Parallel
Typically, it is more convenient to consider only two resistors 
at a time because this setup occurs in common practice. Any 
number of resistors in a circuit can be broken down into pairs. 
Therefore, the most common method is to use the formula

===== PDF-side 482 =====

12-41
+
−
+
−
+
−
R1
A
B
R2
ES
Figure 12-96. Basic parallel circuit.
for two resistors in parallel.
RT =
         +         1
R1
 1      
R2
 1
Combining the terms in the denominator and rewriting:
RT = R1 + R2
 R1R2
Put in words, this states that the total resistance for two 
resistors in parallel is equal to the product of both resistors 
divided by the sum of the two resistors. In the formula below, 
calculate the total resistance.
 General formula RT = R1 + R2
 R1R2
 Known values R1 = 500 Ω
  R2 = 400 Ω
  RT = 500 Ω + 400 Ω
 500 Ω 400 Ω
  
RT = 900 Ω
 200,000 Ω
  RT = 222.22 Ω
Current Source
A current source is an energy source that provides a constant 
value of current to a load even when the load changes in 
resistive value. The general rule to remember is that the total 
current produced by current sources in parallel is equal to the 
algebraic sum of the individual sources.
Kirchhoff’s Current Law
Kirchhoff’s Current Law can be stated as: the sum of the 
currents into a junction or node is equal to the sum of the 
currents flowing out of that same junction or node. A junction 
can be defined as a point in the circuit where two or more 
circuit paths come together. In the case of the parallel circuit, 
it is the point in the circuit where the individual branches join.
 General formula IT = I1 + I2 + I3
Refer to Figure 12-97 for an example. Point A and point B 
represent two junctions or nodes in the circuit with three 
resistive branches in between. The voltage source provides 
a total current IT into node A. At this point, the current must 
divide, flowing out of node A into each of the branches 
according to the resistive value of each branch. Kirchhoff’s 
Current Law states that the current going in must equal that 
going out. Following the current through the three branches 
and back into node B, the total current I T entering node B 
and leaving node B is the same as that which entered node 
A. The current then continues back to the voltage source.
Figure 12-98 shows that the individual branch currents are:
 I 1 = 5 mA
 I 2 = 12 mA
The total current flow into the node A equals the sum of the 
branch currents, which is: IT = I1 + I2
 Substitute IT = 5 mA + 12 mA
  IT = 17 mA
The total current entering node B is also the same.
Figure 12-99 illustrates how to determine an unknown current 
in one branch. Note that the total current into a junction of 
the three branches is known. Two of the branch currents are 
known. By rearranging the general formula, the current in 
branch two can be determined.
 General formula  IT = I1 + I2 + I3
 Substitute  75 mA = 30 mA + I2 + 20 mA
 Solve I2  I2 = 75 mA – 30 mA – 20 mA
  I2 = 25 mA
Current Dividers
It can now be easily seen that the parallel circuit is a current 
divider. As shown in Figure 12-96, there is a current through 
each of the two resistors. Because the same voltage is applied 
across both resistors in parallel, the branch currents are 
inversely proportional to the ohmic values of the resistors. 
Branches with higher resistance have less current than those 
with lower resistance. For example, if the resistive value of 
R2 is twice as high as that of R1, the current in R2 is half of 
that of R1. All of this can be determined with Ohm’s Law.
By Ohm’s Law, the current through any one of the branches 
can be written as:

===== PDF-side 483 =====

12-42
+
−
+
−
+
−
+
−
R1 R2
A
B
R3
ES
IT
IT
I1 I3
+
−
+
−
+
−
+
−
A
B
ES
I1=30 mA I3=20 mA
I2=?
IT=75 mA
IT=75 mA
+
−
+
−
+
−
A
B
ES
I2=12 mA
R2R1
IT=17 mA
IT=17 mA
I1=5 mA
Figure 12-97. Kirchhoff’ s Current Law.
Figure 12-99. Determining an unknown circuit in branch 2.
Figure 12-98. Individual branch currents.
 I X = ES/RX
The voltage source appears across each of the parallel resistors 
and RX represents any one the resistors. The source voltage 
is equal to the total current times the total parallel resistance.
     E S = ITRT
 Substituting ITRT for ES  
 ITRT
RX
IX =     
 
 Rearranging RT
RX
IX = (  )  IT   
 
 
  
R2
RT
I2 = (  )  IT  
 And  
R1
RT
I1 = (  )  IT  
This formula is the general current divider formula. The 
current through any branch equals the total parallel resistance 
divided by the individual branch resistance, multiplied by 
the total current.
Series-Parallel DC Circuits
Most of the circuits that the technician encounters will not 
be a simple series or parallel circuit. Circuits are usually a 
combination of both, known as series-parallel circuits, which 
are groups consisting of resistors in parallel and in series. An 
example of this type of circuit can be seen in Figure 12-100. 
While the series-parallel circuit can initially appear to be 
complex, the same rules that have been used for the series 
and parallel circuits can be applied to these circuits.
The voltage source provides a current out to resistor R 1, 
then to the group of resistors R2 and R3 and then to the next 
resistor R4 before returning to the voltage source. The first 
step in the simplification process is to isolate the group R 2 
and R3 and recognize that they are a parallel network that 
can be reduced to an equivalent resistor. Using the formula 
for parallel resistance, 
R23 = R2 + R3
 R2R3
R2 and R3 can be reduced to R23. Figure 12-101 now shows 
an equivalent circuit with three series connected resistors. The 
total resistance of the circuit can now be simply determined 
by adding up the values of resistors R1, R23, and R4.
Determining the Total Resistance
A more quantitative example for determining total resistance 
and the current in each branch in a combination circuit is 
shown in the following example. [Figure 12-102]
The first step is to determine the current at junction A, 
leading into the parallel branch. To determine the IT, the total

===== PDF-side 484 =====

12-43
+
−
R1
R2ES
R3
A
B
R4
+
−
R1
R23ES
R4
Figure 12-100. Series-parallel circuits.
Figure 12-101.  Equivalent circuit with three series connected 
resistors.
1k Ω
2k Ω 3k Ω
+
−
R1
R2
ES=24 V
R3
A
B
Figure 12-102. Determining total resistance.
resistance RT of the entire circuit must be known. The total 
resistance of the circuit is given as:
  RT = R1 + R23
 Where R23 = (             ) Parallel network R2 + R3
 R2R3
 
 Find REQ R23 = 2k Ω + 3k Ω
 2k Ω 3k Ω
 
 Solve for REQ 
R23 = 5k Ω
 6,000k Ω
  R23 = 1.2k Ω
 
 Solve for RT RT = 1k Ω + 1.2k Ω
  RT = 2.2k Ω
With the total resistance RT now determined, the total IT can 
be determined. Using Ohm’s Law:
  
   
IT  = RT
 ES
 Substitute values IT  = 2.2k Ω
 24 V
   IT = 10.9 mA
The current through the parallel branches of R 2 and R3 can 
be determined using the current divider rule discussed earlier 
in this handbook.
Recall Parallel Branch Resistance:
  R23 =          5,000 Ω 
 6,000 Ω
  R23 =  1.2k Ω
Substitute values for I2:
  
I2 =                    x (10.9 mA)  2,000 Ω
1,200 Ω 
  
I2 = 6.54 mA
Now using Kirchhoff’s Current Law, the current in the branch 
with R3 can be determined.
 I 2 + I3 = IT
 Recall that IT = 10.9 mA 
 I T – I2 = I3
 Also recall that I2 = 6.54 mA
 Subtract I2 from IT to get I3
 I 3 = 4.36 mA
Alternating Current (AC) & Voltage
Alternating current (AC) has largely replaced direct current 
(DC) in commercial power systems for a number of reasons. 
It can be transmitted over long distances more readily and 
more economically than DC, since AC voltages can be

===== PDF-side 485 =====

12-44
increased or decreased by means of transformers.
Because more and more units are being operated electrically 
in airplanes, the power requirements are such that a number 
of advantages can be realized by using AC. Space and 
weight can be saved since AC devices, especially motors, are 
smaller and simpler than DC devices. In most AC motors, 
no brushes are required, and commutation trouble at high 
altitude is eliminated. Circuit breakers operate satisfactorily 
under load at high altitudes in an AC system, whereas arcing 
is so excessive on DC systems that circuit breakers must be 
replaced frequently. Finally, most airplanes using a 24-volt 
DC system have special equipment that requires a certain 
amount of 400-cycle AC current.
AC and DC Compared
Many of the principles, characteristics, and effects of AC 
are similar to those of DC. Similarly, there are a number of 
differences. DC flows constantly in only one direction with 
a constant polarity. It changes magnitude only when the 
circuit is opened or closed, as shown in the DC waveform 
in Figure 12-103. AC changes direction at regular intervals, 
increases in value at a definite rate from zero to a maximum 
positive strength, and decreases back to zero; then it flows 
in the opposite direction, similarly increasing to a maximum 
negative value, and again decreasing to zero. DC and AC 
waveforms are compared in Figure 12-103.
Since AC constantly changes direction and intensity, the 
following two effects (to be discussed later) take place in 
AC circuits that do not occur in DC circuits:
1. Inductive reactance
2. Capacitive reactance
Generator Principles
After the discovery that an electric current flowing through 
a conductor creates a magnetic field around the conductor, 
there was considerable scientific speculation about whether 
a magnetic field could create a current flow in a conductor. 
In 1831, Faraday discovered that this could be accomplished.
To show how an electric current can be created by a magnetic 
field, a demonstration similar to Figure 12-104 can be used. 
Several turns of a conductor are wrapped around a cylindrical 
form, and the ends of the conductor are connected together 
to form a complete circuit, which includes a galvanometer. 
If a simple bar magnet is plunged into the cylinder, the 
galvanometer can be observed to deflect in one direction 
from its zero (center) position. [Figure 12-104A]
When the magnet is at rest inside the cylinder, the 
galvanometer shows a reading of zero, indicating that no 
current is flowing. [Figure 12-104B]
In Figure 12-104C , the galvanometer indicates a current 
flow in the opposite direction when the magnet is pulled 
from the cylinder.
The same results may be obtained by holding the magnet 
stationary and moving the cylinder over the magnet, indicating 
that a current flows when there is relative motion between the 
wire coil and the magnetic field. These results obey a law first 
stated by the German scientist, Heinrich Lenz. Lenz’s Law 
states that the induced current caused by the relative motion 
of a conductor and a magnetic field always flows in such a 
direction that its magnetic field opposes the motion.
When a conductor is moved through a magnetic field, an emf 
is induced in the conductor. [Figure 12-105] The direction 
(polarity) of the induced emf is determined by the magnetic 
lines of force and the direction the conductor is moved 
through the magnetic field. The generator left-hand rule 
(not to be confused with the left-hand rules used with a coil) 
can be used to determine the direction of the induced emf. 
[Figure 12-106] The left-hand rule is summed up as follows:
The first finger of the left hand is pointed in the direction 
of the magnetic lines of force (North to South), the thumb 
is pointed in the direction of movement of the conductor 
through the magnetic field, and the second finger points in 
the direction of the induced emf.
When a loop conductor is rotated in a magnetic field, a 
voltage is induced in each side of the loop. [Figure 12-107] 
The two sides cut the magnetic field in opposite directions, 
and although the current flow is continuous, it moves in 
opposite directions with respect to the two sides of the loop. 
If sides A and B and the loop are rotated half a turn and 
the sides of the conductor have exchanged positions, the 
induced emf in each wire reverses its direction, since the wire 
formerly cutting the lines of force in an upward direction is 
now moving downward.
The value of an induced emf depends on three factors:
1. Number of wires moving through the magnetic field
2. Strength of the magnetic field
3. Speed of rotation
Generators of Alternating Current
Generators used to produce an alternating current are called 
AC generators or alternators.
The simple generator constitutes one method of generating 
an alternating voltage. [Figure 12-108]  It consists of

===== PDF-side 486 =====

12-45
Closed
switch
Open
switch
Operation of circuit
Waveform for DC
Volts
Time
Waveform for AC
             Volts             +          
Time
−
0° 90°
 180° 270° 360°
Figure 12-103. DC and AC voltage curves.
N
S
N
S
N
S
Motion of magnet Galvanometer
A
B
C
Motion of magnet
Coil
Magnet at rest
I
I
I
I
Figure 12-104. Inducing a current flow.
a rotating loop, marked A and B, placed between two 
magnetic poles, N and S. The ends of the loop are connected 
to two metal slip rings (collector rings), C1 and C2. Current 
is taken from the collector rings by brushes. If the loop is 
considered as separate wires A and B, and the left-hand 
rule for generators is applied, then it can be observed that 
as wire A moves up across the field, a voltage is induced 
which causes the current to flow inward. As wire B moves 
down across the field, a voltage is induced which causes the 
current to flow outward. When the wires are formed into a 
loop, the voltages induced in the two sides of the loop are 
combined. Therefore, for explanatory purposes, the action 
of either conductor, A or B, while rotating in the magnetic 
field is similar to the action of the loop.
Figure 12-109 illustrates the generation of AC with a simple 
loop conductor rotating in a magnetic field. As it is rotated 
in a counterclockwise direction, varying values of voltages 
are induced in it.
Position 1
The conductor A moves parallel to the lines of force. Since 
it cuts no lines of force, the induced voltage is zero. As the 
conductor advances from position 1 to position 2, the voltage 
induced gradually increases.
Position 2
The conductor is now moving perpendicular to the flux 
and cuts a maximum number of lines of force; therefore, a 
maximum voltage is induced. As the conductor moves beyond 
position 2, it cuts a decreasing amount of flux at each instant, 
and the induced voltage decreases.
Position 3
At this point, the conductor has made one-half of a revolution 
and again moves parallel to the lines of force, and no voltage 
is induced in the conductor. As the A conductor passes 
position 3, the direction of induced voltage now reverses 
since the A conductor is moving downward, cutting flux

===== PDF-side 487 =====

12-46
 
S
N
S
N
Inducted emf
Flux forward
Inductedemf
Conductor 
moved up
Figure 12-106. An application of the generator left-hand rule.
N
S
A
B
Figure 12-107. Voltage induced in a loop.
N
S
Motion of conductor
emf
Figure 12-105. Inducing an emf in a conductor.
in the opposite direction. As the A conductor moves across 
the South pole, the induced voltage gradually increases in a 
negative direction, until it reaches position 4.
Position 4
Like position 2, the conductor is again moving perpendicular 
to the flux and generates a maximum negative voltage. From 
position 4 to 5, the induced voltage gradually decreases until 
the voltage is zero, and the conductor and wave are ready to 
start another cycle.
Position 5
The curve shown at position 5 is called a sine wave. It 
represents the polarity and the magnitude of the instantaneous 
values of the voltages generated. The horizontal base line is 
divided into degrees, or time, and the vertical distance above 
or below the base line represents the value of voltage at each 
particular point in the rotation of the loop.
Cycle and Frequency
Cycle Defined
A cycle is a repetition of a pattern. Whenever a voltage 
or current passes through a series of changes, returns to 
the starting point, and then again starts the same series of 
changes, the series is called a cycle. The cycle is represented 
by the symbol of a wavy line in a circle ~ . In the cycle of 
voltage shown in Figure 12-110, the voltage increases from 
zero to a maximum positive value, decreases to zero; then 
increases to a maximum negative value, and again decreases 
to zero. At this point, it is ready to go through the same series 
of changes. There are two alternations in a complete cycle: 
the positive alternation and the negative. Each is half a cycle.
Frequency Defined
The frequency is the number of cycles of AC per second (1

===== PDF-side 488 =====

12-47
N
S
N
S
Brushes
C1
C2
A
B
+
In currentOut current
Figure 12-108. Simple generator.
second). The standard unit of frequency measurement is the 
hertz (Hz). [Figure 12-111] In a generator, the voltage and 
current pass through a complete cycle of values each time 
a coil or conductor passes under a North and South pole of 
the magnet. The number of cycles for each revolution of the 
coil or conductor is equal to the number of pairs of poles. 
The frequency, then, is equal to the number of cycles in 
one revolution multiplied by the number of revolutions per 
second (rps). 
Expressed in equation form:
F = ×2 60
 Number of poles  rpm
where P⁄2 is the number of pairs of poles, and rpm/60 the 
number of revolutions per second. If in a 2-pole generator, 
the conductor is turning at 3,600 rpm, the revolutions per 
second are:
rps = = 60 revolutions per second60
 3,600
Since there are 2 poles, P⁄2 is 1, and the frequency is 60 cycles 
per second (cps). In a 4-pole generator with an armature speed 
of 1,800 rpm, substitute in the equation:
 
F = ×          as follows2 60
 P  rpm
 F = ×          2 60
 4  1,800
 F = 2 × 30
 F = 60 cps
Period Defined
The time required for a sine wave to complete one full cycle 
is called a period. [Figure 12-110]  The period of a sine 
wave is inversely proportional to the frequency: the higher 
the frequency, the shorter the period. The mathematical 
relationship between frequency and period is given as:
Period is t = f
 1
Frequency is f = t
 1
Wavelength Defined
The distance that a waveform travels during a period is 
commonly referred to as a wavelength and is indicated by 
the Greek letter lambda (l). The measurement of wavelength 
is taken from one point on the waveform to a corresponding 
point on the next waveform. [Figure 12-110]
Phase Relationships
In addition to frequency and cycle characteristics, alternating 
voltage and current also have a relationship called “phase.” 
In a circuit that is fed (supplied) by one alternator, there 
must be a certain phase relationship between voltage and 
current if the circuit is to function efficiently. In a system 
fed by two or more alternators, not only must there be a 
certain phase relationship between voltage and current of 
one alternator, but there must be a phase relationship between 
the individual voltages and the individual currents. Also, two 
separate circuits can be compared by comparing the phase

===== PDF-side 489 =====

12-48
S
B
Position 2 Quarter turn completed
Conductors cutting directly across the magnetic field as conductor 
A passes across the North (N) magnetic pole and B passes across 
the South (S) magnetic pole.
Maximum positive voltage
0° 90° 180° 270° 360°C1
C2
N
0° 90° 180° 270° 360°
S
Position 4 Three quarters turn completed
Conductors again moving directly across magnetic field A passes
across South (S) magnetic pole and B across North (N) magnetic pole.
C1
C2
Maximum negative voltage
N
0° 90° 180° 270° 360°
N
S
B
Voltage drops to zero
Position 3  One half turn completed
Conductor again moving parallel to magnetic field, cutting minimum
lines of force.
C1
C2
N
S
A
C1
C2
0° 90° 180° 270° 360°
Zero voltage
Position 1
Rotating conductors moving parallel to magnetic field, cutting 
minimum lines of force.
Magnetic field
0° 90° 180° 270° 360°
N
S
A
Position 5
Zero voltage
Full turn completed
Conductor A has made one complete cycle and is in same position
as in position A. The generator has generated one complete cycle 
of alternating voltage or current.
C1
C2
Figure 12-109. Generation of a sine wave.
characteristics of one to the phase characteristics of the other.
In Phase Condition
Figure 12-112A shows a voltage signal and a current signal 
superimposed on the same time axis. Notice that when the 
voltage increases in the positive alternation that the current 
also increases. When the voltage reaches its peak value, so 
does the current. Both waveforms then reverse and decrease 
back to a zero magnitude, then proceed in the same manner 
in the negative direction as they did in the positive direction. 
When two waves, such as these in Figure 12-112A, are exactly 
in step with each other, they are said to be in phase. To be in 
phase, the two waveforms must go through their maximum and 
minimum points at the same time and in the same direction.
Out of Phase Condition
When two waveforms go through their maximum and 
minimum points at different times, a phase difference exists 
between the two. In this case, the two wave-forms are said 
to be out of phase with each other. The terms lead and lag 
are often used to describe the phase difference between 
waveforms. The waveform that reaches its maximum or 
minimum value first is said to lead the other waveform. 
Figure 12-112B  shows this relationship. V oltage source 
one starts to rise at the 0° position and voltage source two 
starts to rise at the 90° position. Because voltage source one 
begins its rise earlier in time (90°) in relation to the second 
voltage source, it is said to be leading the second source. 
On the other hand, the second source is said to be lagging 
the first source. When a waveform is said to be leading or 
lagging, the difference in degrees is usually stated. If the 
two waveforms differ by 360°, they are said to be in phase 
with each other. If there is a 180° difference between the two 
signals, then they are still out of phase even though they are 
both reaching their minimum and maximum values at the 
same time. [Figure 12-112C]
A practical note of caution: When encountering an aircraft that 
has two or more AC busses in use, it is possible that they may 
be split and not synchronized to be in phase with each other. 
When two signals that are not locked in phase are mixed, much 
damage can occur to aircraft systems or avionics.
Values of Alternating Current
There are three values of AC: instantaneous, peak, and 
effective root mean square (RMS).
Instantaneous Value
An instantaneous value of voltage or current is the induced 
voltage or current flowing at any instant during a cycle. The 
sine wave represents a series of these values. The instantaneous

===== PDF-side 490 =====

12-49
One cycle
One period
(Time)
One wavelength
(Distance)
Second cycle
(Repeated)
Vertical scale (voltage)
Horizontal scale
(Time)
Positive alternation
1T 2T 3T 4T
Negative
alternation
Cycle is defined as a repetitive pattern.
360°
1 second time
Positive
alternation
1T
0° 90° 180° 270° 
Frequency = 2 cycles per second
270°
180°
0°
90°
Frequency = 2 cycles per second
1 second time
Frequency = 8 cycles per second
360°
Negative
alternation
Figure 12-110. Cycle of voltage.
Figure 12-111. Frequency in cycles per second.value of the voltage varies from zero at 0° to maximum at 90°, 
back to zero at 180°, to maximum in the opposite direction at 
270°, and to zero again at 360°. Any point on the sine wave is 
considered the instantaneous value of voltage.
Peak Value
The peak value is the largest instantaneous value. The largest 
single positive value occurs when the sine wave of voltage is 
at 90°, and the largest single negative value occurs when it 
is at 270°. Maximum value is 1.41 times the effective value. 
These are called peak values.
Effective Value
The effective value is also known as the RMS value or root 
mean square, which refers to the mathematical process by 
which the value is derived. Most AC voltmeters display the 
effective or RMS value when used. The effective value is 
less than the maximum value, being equal to .707 times the 
maximum value.
The effective value of a sine wave is actually a measure of 
the heating effect of the sine wave. Figure 12-113 illustrates 
what happens when a resistor is connected across an AC 
voltage source. In Figure 12-113A, a certain amount of heat is 
generated by the power in the resistor. Figure 12-113B shows 
the same resistor now inserted into a DC voltage source. 
The value of the DC voltage source can now be adjusted so 
that the resistor dissipates the same amount of heat as it did 
when it was in the AC circuit. The RMS or effective value 
of a sine wave is equal to the DC voltage that produces the 
same amount of heat as the sinusoidal voltage.
The peak value of a sine wave can be converted to the 
corresponding RMS value using the following relationship.
Vrms = ( 0.5
) × Vp
Vrms = 0.707 × Vp
This can be applied to either voltage or current.
Algebraically rearranging the formula and solving for Vp can 
also determine the peak voltage. The resulting formula is:
Vp = 1.414 × Vrms
Thus, the 110 volt value given for AC supplied to homes 
is only 0.707 of the maximum voltage of this supply. The 
maximum voltage is approximately 155 volts (110 × 1.41 = 
155 volts maximum).
In the study of AC, any values given for current or voltage 
are assumed to be effective values unless otherwise specified. 
In practice, only the effective values of voltage and current 
are used. Similarly, AC voltmeters and ammeters measure 
the effective value.
Opposition to Current Flow of AC
There are three factors that can create an opposition to the flow 
of electrons (current) in an AC circuit. Resistance, similar 
to resistance of DC circuits, is measured in ohms and has a 
direct influence on AC regardless of frequency. Inductive 
reactance and capacitive reactance, on the other hand, oppose 
current flow only in AC circuits, not in DC circuits. Since 
AC constantly changes direction and intensity, inductors and 
capacitors may also create an opposition to current flow in 
AC circuits. It should also be noted that inductive reactance 
and capacitive reactance may create a phase shift between 
the voltage and current in an AC circuit. Whenever analyzing 
an AC circuit, it is very important to consider the resistance, 
inductive reactance, and the capacitive reactance. All three 
have an effect on the current of that circuit.

===== PDF-side 491 =====

12-50
Current
Voltage
0°          90°          180°         270°       360°
Voltage source 1 (leads source 2)
90°
Difference
0°           90°         180°          270°         360°
Voltage source 2 (lags source 1)
Voltage source 1
0°     90°         180°     270°         360°
Voltage source 2
A. Voltage and current are in phase
B. Two voltage waves, 90° out of phase
C. Two voltage waves, 180° out of phase
Figure 12-112. In phase and out of phase conditions.
Capacitance
Another important property in AC circuits, besides resistance 
and inductance, is capacitance. While inductance is 
represented in a circuit by a coil, capacitance is represented by 
a capacitor. In its most basic form, the capacitor is constructed 
of two parallel plates separated by a nonconductor called 
a dielectric. In an electrical circuit, a capacitor serves as a 
reservoir or storehouse for electricity.
Capacitors in Direct Current
When a capacitor is connected across a source of DC, such as a 
storage battery in the circuit shown in Figure 12-114A, and the 
switch is then closed, the plate marked B becomes positively 
charged, and the A plate negatively charged. Current flows in 
the external circuit during the time the electrons are moving 
from B to A. The current flow in the circuit is at a maximum 
the instant the switch is closed, but continually decreases 
thereafter until it reaches zero. The current becomes zero as 
soon as the difference in voltage of A and B becomes the same 
as the voltage of the battery. If the switch is opened as shown in 
Figure 12-114B, the plates remain charged. Once the capacitor 
is shorted, it discharges quickly as shown Figure 12-114C.
It should be clear that during the time the capacitor is being 
charged or discharged, there is current in the circuit, even 
though the circuit is broken by the gap between the capacitor 
plates. Current is present only during the time of charge and 
discharge, and this period of time is usually short.
The Resistor/Capacitor (RC) Time Constant
The time required for a capacitor to attain a full charge is 
proportional to the capacitance and the resistance of the 
circuit. The resistance of the circuit introduces the element 
of time into the charging and discharging of a capacitor.
When a capacitor charges or discharges through a resistance, 
a certain amount of time is required for a full charge or 
discharge. The voltage across the capacitor does not change 
instantaneously. The rate of charging or discharging is 
determined by the time constant of the circuit. The time 
constant of a series resistor/capacitor (RC) circuit is a time 
interval that equals the product of the resistance in ohms 
and the capacitance in farad and is symbolized by the Greek 
letter tau (τ).
 τ = RC
The time in the formula is the time required to charge to 63 
percent of the voltage of the source. The time required to 
bring the charge to about 99 percent of the source voltage is 
approximately 5 τ. [Figure 12-115] 
The measure of a capacitor’s ability to store charge is its 
capacitance. The symbol used for capacitance is the letter C.
As can be seen from Figure 12-115, there can be no continuous 
movement of DC through a capacitor. A good capacitor blocks 
DC and passes the effects of pulsing DC or AC.
Units of Capacitance
Electrical charge, which is symbolized by the letter Q, is 
measured in units of coulombs. The coulomb is given by 
the letter C, as with capacitance. Unfortunately, this can be 
confusing. One coulomb of charge is defined as a charge 
having 6.28 × 1018 electrons. The basic unit of capacitance 
is the farad and is given by the letter f. By definition, one

===== PDF-side 492 =====

12-51
A
B
Equal heat dissipation 
in both circuits
+
−
RVrms=Vdc
RVrms
Figure 12-113. Sine wave effective value.
farad is one coulomb of charge stored with one volt across the 
plates of the capacitor. The general formula for capacitance 
in terms of charge and voltage is:
 Where  C = E
 Q
  
  C = capacitance measured in farads
  E = applied voltage measured in volts
  Q = charge measured in coulombs 
In practical terms, one farad is a large amount of capacitance. 
Typically, in electronics, much smaller units are used. The two 
more common smaller units are the microfarad (μF), which is 
10-6 farad, and the picofarad (pF), which is 10-12 farad.
Voltage Rating of a Capacitor
Capacitors have their limits as to how much voltage can be 
applied across the plates. The aircraft technician must be 
aware of the voltage rating, which specifies the maximum 
DC voltage that can be applied without the risk of damage 
to the device. This voltage rating is typically called the 
breakdown voltage, the working voltage, or simply the 
voltage rating. If the voltage applied across the plates is 
too great, the dielectric breaks down and arcing occurs 
between the plates. The capacitor is then short circuited, 
and the possible flow of DC through it can cause damage 
to other parts of the equipment.
A capacitor that can be safely charged to 500 volts DC cannot 
be safely subjected to AC or pulsating DC whose effective 
values are 500 volts. An alternating voltage of 500 volts (RMS) 
has a peak voltage of 707 volts, and a capacitor to which it is 
applied should have a working voltage of at least 750 volts. The 
capacitor should be selected so that its working voltage is at 
least 50 percent greater than the highest voltage to be applied.
The voltage rating of the capacitor is a factor in determining 
the actual capacitance, because capacitance decreases as the 
thickness of the dielectric increases. A high-voltage capacitor 
that has a thick dielectric must have a larger plate area in 
order to have the same capacitance as a similar low voltage 
capacitor having a thin dielectric.
Factors Affecting Capacitance
1. The capacitance of parallel plates is directly 
proportional to their area. A larger plate area produces 
a larger capacitance and a smaller area produces less 
capacitance. If we double the area of the plates, there 
is room for twice as much charge. The charge that a 
capacitor can hold at a given potential difference is 
doubled, and since C = Q/E, the capacitance is doubled.
2. The capacitance of parallel plates is inversely 
proportional to their spacing.
3. The dielectric material affects the capacitance of 
parallel plates. The dielectric constant of a vacuum is 
defined as 1, and that of air is very close to 1. These 
values are used as a reference, and all other materials 
have values specified in relation to air (vacuum).
The strength of some commonly used dielectric materials is 
listed in Figure 12-116. The voltage rating also depends on 
frequency because the losses, and the resultant heating effect, 
increase as the frequency increases.
Types of Capacitors
Capacitors come in all shapes and sizes and are usually 
marked with their value in farads. They may also be divided 
into two groups: fixed and variable. The fixed capacitors, 
which have approximately constant capacitance, may then 
be further divided according to the type of dielectric used. 
Some varieties are: paper, oil, mica, electrolytic and ceramic 
capacitors. Figure 12-117 shows the schematic symbols for 
a fixed and variable capacitor.
Fixed Capacitors
Mica Capacitors
The fixed mica capacitor is made of metal foil plates that are 
separated by sheets of mica, which form the dielectric. The 
whole assembly is covered in molded plastic, which keeps out 
moisture. Mica is an excellent dielectric and withstands higher 
voltages than paper without allowing arcing between the plates. 
Common values of mica capacitors range from approximately 
50 microfarads to about 0.02 microfarads. [Figure 12-118]
Ceramic
The ceramic capacitor is constructed with materials, such 
as titanium acid barium for a dielectric. Internally these

===== PDF-side 493 =====

12-52
63%
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
86%
95% 98%
Voltage
Current
1t
Charging curve for a capacitor
2t 3t 4t 5t
99%
Figure 12-115. Capacitance discharge curve.
A
B
C
+
−
++++
−−−−
Open
B
A
Capacitor being charged
Capacitor retains charge
Capacitor discharges
+
−
++++
−−−−
Close Charge
B
A
+
−
++
−−
Close
ShortRemoved
B
A
Figure 12-114. Capacitors in direct current.
capacitors are not constructed as a coil, so they are well 
suited for use in high-frequency applications. They are shaped 
like a disk, available in very small capacitance values, and 
very small sizes. This type is fairly small, inexpensive, and 
reliable. Both the ceramic and the electrolytic are the most 
widely available and used capacitor.
Electrolytic
Two kinds of electrolytic capacitors are in use: wet electrolytic 
and dry electrolytic. The wet electrolytic capacitor is designed 
of two metal plates separated by an electrolyte with an 
electrolyte dielectric, which is basically conductive salt in 
solvent. For capacitances greater than a few microfarads, the 
plate areas of paper or mica capacitors must become very 
large; thus, electrolytic capacitors are usually used instead. 
These units provide large capacitance in small physical sizes. 
Their values range from 1 to about 1,500 microfarads. Unlike 
the other types, electrolytic capacitors are generally polarized, 
with the positive lead marked with a “+” and the negative 
lead marked with a “−” and should only be subjected to direct 
voltage or pulsating direct voltage only.
The electrolyte in contact with the negative terminal, either 
in paste or liquid form, comprises the negative electrode. The 
dielectric is an exceedingly thin film of oxide deposited on 
the positive electrode of the capacitor. The positive electrode, 
which is an aluminum sheet, is folded to achieve maximum 
area. The capacitor is subjected to a forming process during 
manufacture in which current is passed through it. The flow 
of current results in the deposit of the thin coating of oxide 
on the aluminum plate.
The close spacing of the negative and positive electrodes 
gives rise to the comparatively high-capacitance value, but 
allows greater possibility of voltage breakdown and leakage 
of electrons from one electrode to the other.
The electrolyte of the dry electrolytic unit is a paste contained 
in a separator made of an absorbent material, such as gauze or 
paper. The separator not only holds the electrolyte in place but 
also prevents it from short circuiting the plates. Dry electrolytic 
capacitors are made in both cylindrical and rectangular block 
form and may be contained either within cardboard or metal 
covers. Since the electrolyte cannot spill, the dry capacitor 
may be mounted in any convenient position. [Figure 12-119]
Tantalum
Similar to the electrolytic, these capacitors are constructed 
with a material called tantalum, which is used for the 
electrodes. They are superior to electrolytic capacitors, 
having better temperature and frequency characteristics. 
When tantalum powder is baked in order to solidify it, a crack 
forms inside. This crack is used to store an electrical charge. 
Like electrolytic capacitors, the tantalum capacitors are also 
polarized and are indicated with the “+” and “−” symbols.
Polyester Film
In this capacitor, a thin polyester film is used as a dielectric. 
These components are inexpensive, temperature stable, and 
widely used. Tolerance is approximately 5–10 percent. It

===== PDF-side 494 =====

12-53
Fixed Variable
Dielectric K Dielectric Strength 
(volts per .001 inch)
 Air  1.0  80
 Paper
  (1) Paraffined  2.2  1,200
  (2) Beeswaxed  3.1  1,800
 Glass  4.2  200
 Castor Oil  4.7  380
 Bakelite  6.0  500
 Mica  6.0  2,000
 Fiber  6.5  50
Figure 12-117. Schematic symbols for a fixed and variable capacitor.
Figure 12-118. Fixed capacitors.Figure 12-116. Strength of some dielectric materials.
can be quite large depending on capacity or rated voltage.
Oil Capacitors
In radio and radar transmitters, voltages high enough to cause 
arcing, or breakdown, of paper dielectrics are often used. 
Consequently, in these applications capacitors that use oil or 
oil impregnated paper for the dielectric material are preferred. 
Capacitors of this type are considerably more expensive than 
ordinary paper capacitors, and their use is generally restricted 
to radio and radar transmitting equipment. [Figure 12-120]
Variable Capacitors
Variable capacitors are mostly used in radio tuning circuits, and 
they are sometimes called “tuning capacitors.” They have very 
small capacitance values, typically between 100 pF and 500 pF.
Trimmers
The trimmer is actually an adjustable or variable capacitor, 
which uses ceramic or plastic as a dielectric. Most of them are 
color coded to easily recognize their tunable size. The ceramic 
type has the value printed on them. Colors are: yellow (5 pF), 
blue (7 pF), white (10 pF), green (30 pF), and brown (60 pF).
Varactors
A voltage-variable capacitor or varactor is also known as a 
variable capacitance diode or a varicap. This device utilizes 
the variation of the barrier width in a reversed-biased diode. 
Because the barrier width of a diode acts as a non-conductor, 
a diode forms a capacitor when reversed biased. Essentially, 
the N-type material becomes one plate and the junctions 
are the dielectric. If the reversed-bias voltage is increased, 
then the barrier width widens, effectively separating the two 
capacitor plates and reducing the capacitance.
Capacitors in Series
When capacitors are placed in series, the effective plate 
separation is increased and the total capacitance is less 
than that of the smallest capacitor. Additionally, the series 
combination is capable of withstanding a higher total 
potential difference than any of the individual capacitors. 
Figure 12-121 is a simple series circuit. The bottom plate 
of C 1 and the top plate of C 2 is charged by electrostatic 
induction. The capacitors charge as current is established 
through the circuit. Since this is a series circuit, the current 
must be the same at all points. Since the current is the rate 
of flow of charge, the amount of charge (Q) stored by each 
capacitor is equal to the total charge.
 Q T = Q1 + Q2 + Q3
According to Kirchhoff’s V oltage Law, the sum of the 
voltages across the charged capacitors must equal the total 
voltage, ET. This is expressed as:
 E T = E1 + E2 + E3
Equation E = Q/C can now be substituted into the voltage 
equation where we now get:
 = + + CT C1 C2 C3
 QT  Q1  Q2  Q3
Since the charge on all capacitors is equal, the Q terms can 
be factored out, leaving us with the equation:
 = + + CT C1 C2 C3
 1  1  1  1

===== PDF-side 495 =====

12-54
Figure 12-119. Electrolytic capacitors. Figure 12-120. Oil capacitor.
Consider the following example:
 If C1 = 10 μF, C2 = 5 μF and C3 = 8 μF
 Then    = + + CT 10 μF 5 μF 8 μF
 1  1  1  1
 CT = = 2.35 μF 0.425 μF
 1
Capacitors in Parallel
When capacitors are connected in parallel, the effective plate 
area increases, and the total capacitance is the sum of the 
individual capacitances. Figure 12-122 shows a simplified 
parallel circuit. The total charging current from the source 
divides at the junction of the parallel branches. There is 
a separate charging current through each branch so that 
a different charge can be stored by each capacitor. Using 
Kirchhoff’s Current Law, the sum of all of the charging 
currents is then equal to the total current. The sum of the 
charges (Q) on the capacitors is equal to the total charge. 
The voltages (E) across all of the parallel branches are equal. 
With all of this in mind, a general equation for capacitors in 
parallel can be determined as:
 Q T = Q1 + Q2 + Q3
 Because Q = CE: CTET = C1E1 + C2E2 + C3E3
V oltages can be factored out because:
 E T = E1 + E2 + E3
Leaving us with the equation for capacitors in parallel:
 C T = C1 + C2 + C3
Consider the following example:
 If C1 = 330 μF, C2 = 220 μF
 
 Then CT = 330 μF + 220 μF = 550 μF
Capacitors in Alternating Current
If a source of AC is substituted for the battery, the capacitor 
acts quite differently than it does with DC. When AC is 
applied in the circuit, the charge on the plates constantly 
changes. [Figure 12-123] This means that electricity 
must flow first from Y clockwise around to X, then from 
X counterclockwise around to Y , then from Y clockwise 
around to X, and so on. Although no current flows through 
the insulator between the plates of the capacitor, it constantly 
flows in the remainder of the circuit between X and Y . In 
a circuit where there is only capacitance, current leads the 
applied voltage as contrasted with a circuit in which there is 
inductance, where the current lags the voltage.
Capacitive Reactance Xc
The effectiveness of a capacitor in allowing an AC flow to pass 
depends upon the capacitance of the circuit and the applied 
frequency. To what degree a capacitor allows an AC flow to 
pass depends largely upon the capacitive value of the capacitor 
given in farads (f). The greater the capacitance of the capacitor, 
the greater the number of electrons, measured in Coulombs, 
necessary to bring the capacitor to a fully charged state. Once 
the capacitor approaches or actually reaches a fully charged 
condition, the polarity of the capacitor opposes the polarity of 
the applied voltage, essentially acting then as an open circuit. 
To further illustrate this characteristic and how it manifests 
itself in an AC circuit, consider the following. If a capacitor has 
a large capacitive value, meaning that it requires a relatively 
large number of electrons to bring it to a fully charged state,

===== PDF-side 496 =====

12-55
+
− +
−
+
−
+
− C1
C2
C3
+
−
+
−
+
−
+
− C1 C2 C3
Figure 12-121. Simple series circuit. Figure 12-122. Simplified parallel circuit.
then a rather high-frequency current can alternate through the 
capacitor without the capacitor ever reaching a full charge. In 
this case, if the frequency is high enough and the capacitance 
large enough that there is never enough time for the capacitor 
to ever reach a full charge, it is possible that the capacitor 
may offer very little or no resistance to the current. However, 
the smaller the capacitance, the fewer electrons are required 
to bring it up to a full charge and it is more likely that the 
capacitor will build up enough of an opposing charge that it 
can present a great deal of resistance to the current if not to the 
point of behaving like an open circuit. In between these two 
extreme conditions lies a continuum of possibilities of current 
opposition depending on the combination of applied frequency 
and the selected capacitance. Current in an AC circuit can be 
controlled by changing the circuit capacitance in a similar 
manner that resistance can control the current. The actual AC 
reactance Xc, which just like resistance, is measured in ohms 
(Ω). Capacitive reactance Xc is determined by the following:
 Xc = 2πfC
 1
 
 Where Xc = capacitive reactance
  f = frequency in cps 
  C = capacity in farads
  2π = 6.28
Sample Problem:
A series circuit is assumed in which the impressed voltage 
is 110 volts at 60 cps, and the capacitance of a condenser is 
80 Mf. Find the capacitive reactance and the current flow.
Solution:
To find capacitive reactance, the equation Xc = 1/(2πfC) 
is used. First, the capacitance, 80 Mf, is changed to farads 
by dividing 80 by 1,000,000, since 1 million microfarads is 
equal to 1 farad. This quotient equals 0.000080 farad. This 
is substituted in the equation and:
 Xc = 6.28 × 60 × 0.000080
 1
 Xc = 33.2 ohms reactance
Once the reactance has been determined, Ohm’s Law can 
then be used in the same manner as it is used in DC circuits 
to determine the current.
 Current =            , orCapacitive reactance
 V oltage
 I =         Xc
 E
 Find the current flow:
 I =         Xc
 E
 I =         33.2
 110
 I =  3.31 amperes
Capacitive Reactances in Series and in Parallel 
When capacitors are connected in series, the total reactance 
is equal to the sum of the individual reactances. Thus,
 Xct = (Xc)1 + (Xc)2
The total reactance of capacitors connected in parallel is 
found in the same way total resistance is computed in a 
parallel circuit:
 
(Xc)t =
+ +1
(Xc)1
1
(Xc)2
1
(Xc)3
 1
Phase of Current and Voltage in Reactive Circuits 
Unlike a purely resistive circuit, the capacitive and inductive 
reactance has a significant effect on the phase relationship 
between the applied AC voltage and the corresponding

===== PDF-side 497 =====

12-56
X
YAC generator
Figure 12-123. Capacitor in an AC circuit. 
current in the circuit.
In review, when current and voltage pass through zero and 
reach maximum value at the same time, the current and 
voltage are said to be in phase. [Figure 12-124A] If the current 
and voltage pass through zero and reach the maximum values 
at different times, the current and voltage are said to be out 
of phase. In a circuit containing only inductance, the current 
reaches a maximum value later than the voltage, lagging the 
voltage by 90°, or one-fourth cycle. [Figure 12-124B]
In a circuit containing only capacitance, the current reaches 
its maximum value ahead of the voltage and the current leads 
the voltage by 90°, or one-fourth cycle. [Figure 12-124C] The 
amount the current lags or leads the voltage in a circuit 
depends on the relative amounts of resistance, inductance, 
and capacitance in the circuit.
Inductance
Characteristics of Inductance
Michael Faraday discovered that by moving a magnet through 
a coil of wire, a voltage was induced across the coil. If a 
complete circuit was provided, then a current was also induced. 
The amount of induced voltage is directly proportional to 
the rate of change of the magnetic field with respect to the 
coil. The simplest of experiments can prove that when a bar 
magnet is moved through a coil of wire, a voltage is induced 
and can be measured on a voltmeter. This is commonly known 
as Faraday’s Law or the Law of Electromagnetic Induction, 
which states that the induced emf or electromagnetic force in 
a closed loop of wire is proportional to the rate of change of 
the magnetic flux through a coil of wire.
Conversely, current flowing through a coil of wire produces 
a magnetic field. When this wire is formed into a coil, it then 
becomes a basic inductor. The magnetic lines of force around 
each loop or turn in the coil effectively add to the lines of 
force around the adjoining loops. This forms a strong magnetic 
field within and around the coil. Figure 12-125A shows a coil 
of wire strengthening a magnetic field. The magnetic lines 
of force around adjacent loops are deflected into an outer 
path when the loops are brought close together. This happens 
because the magnetic lines of force between adjacent loops 
are in opposition with each other. The total magnetic field for 
the two loops is shown in Figure 12-125B. As more loops 
are added close together, the strength of the magnetic field 
increases. Figure 12-125C illustrates the combined effects 
of many loops of a coil. The result is a strong electromagnet.
The primary aspect of the operation of a coil is its property 
to oppose any change in current through it. This property 
is called inductance. When current flows through any 
conductor, a magnetic field starts to expand from the center 
of the wire. As the lines of magnetic force grow outward 
through the conductor, they induce an emf in the conductor 
itself. The induced voltage is always in the direction opposite 
to the direction of the current flow. The effects of this 
countering emf are to oppose the immediate establishment 
of the maximum current. This effect is only a temporary 
condition. Once the current reaches a steady value in the 
conductor, the lines of magnetic force no longer expand and 
the countering emf is no longer present.
At the starting instant, the countering emf nearly equals the 
applied voltage, resulting in a small current flow. However, 
as the lines of force move outward, the number of lines 
cutting the conductor per second becomes progressively 
smaller, resulting in a diminished counter emf. Eventually, 
the counter emf drops to zero and the only voltage in 
the circuit is the applied voltage and the current is at its 
maximum value.
The RL Time Constant
Because the inductors basic action is to oppose a change in 
its current, it then follows that the current cannot change 
instantaneously in the inductor. A certain time is required 
for the current to make a change from one value to another. 
The rate at which the current changes is determined by a time 
constant represented by the Greek letter τ. The time constant 
for the RL circuit is:
  
  τ  = R
 L
 Where τ = seconds
  L = inductance (H)
  R = resistance (Ω)
In a series RL circuit, the current increases to 63 percent of 
its full value in 1 time constant after the circuit is closed. This 
buildup is similar to the buildup of voltage in a capacitor 
when charging an RC circuit. Both follow an exponential 
curve and reach 99 percent value after the 5th time constant. 
[Figure 12-126]
Physical Parameters
Some of the physical factors that affect inductance are:

===== PDF-side 498 =====

12-57
Current and voltage in phase
Effect of inductance
Effect of capacitance
A
B
C
0° 180° 360°
emf
0°
Lag
180°90° 360°270°
emf
0°
Lead
180°90° 360°270°
emf
Figure 12-124. Phase of current and voltage. 
1. The number of turns: Doubling the number of turns 
in a coil produces a field twice as strong if the same 
current is used. As a general rule, the inductance varies 
as the square of the number of turns.
2. The cross-sectional area of the coil: The inductance 
of a coil increases directly as the cross-sectional area 
of the core increases. Doubling the radius of a coil 
increases the inductance by a factor of four.
3. The length of a coil: Doubling the length of a coil, 
while keeping the same number of turns, halves the 
value of inductance.
4. The core material around which the coil is formed: 
Coils are wound on either magnetic or nonmagnetic 
materials. Some nonmagnetic materials include air, 
copper, plastic, and glass. Magnetic materials include 
nickel, iron, steel, or cobalt, which have a permeability 
that provides a better path for the magnetic lines of 
force and permit a stronger magnetic field.
Self-Inductance
The characteristic of self-inductance was summarized by 
German physicist Heinrich Lenz in 1833, and gives the direction 
of the induced emf resulting from electromagnetic induction. 
This is commonly known as Lenz’s Law, which states: The emf 
induced in an electric circuit always acts in such a direction 
that the current it drives around a closed circuit produces a 
magnetic field, which opposes the change in magnetic flux.
Self-inductance is the generation of a voltage in an electric 
circuit by a changing current in the same circuit. Even 
a straight piece of wire has some degree of inductance 
because current in a conductor produces a magnetic field. 
When the current in a conductor changes direction, there is 
a corresponding change in the polarity of the magnetic field 
around the conductor. Therefore, a changing current produces 
a changing magnetic field around the wire. To further 
intensify the magnetic field, the wire can be rolled into a 
coil, which is called an inductor. The changing magnetic field 
around the inductor induces a voltage across the coil. This 
induced emf is called self-inductance and tends to oppose 
any change in current within the circuit. This property is 
usually called inductance and symbolized with the letter L.
Types of Inductors
Inductors used in radios can range from a straight wire at UHF 
to large chokes and transformers used for filtering the ripple 
from the output of power supplies and in audio amplifiers. 
Figure 12-127 shows the schematic symbols for common 
inductors. Values of inductors range from nano-henries to 
tens of henries.
Inductors are classified by the type of core and the method of 
winding them. The number of turns in the inductor winding 
and the core material determine the capacity of the inductor. 
Cores made of dielectric material like ceramics, wood, and 
paper provide small amounts of stored energy while cores 
made of ferrite substances have a much higher degree of 
stored energy. The core material is usually the most important 
aspect of the inductors construction. The conductors typically 
used in the construction of an inductor offer little resistance 
to the flow of current. However, with the introduction of a 
core, resistance is introduced in the circuit and the current 
now builds up in the windings until the resistance of the core 
is overcome. This buildup is stored as magnetic energy in 
the core. Depending on the core resistance, the buildup soon 
reaches a point of magnetic saturation, and it can be released 
when necessary. The most common core materials are: air, 
solid ferrite, powdered ferrite, steel, toroid, and ferrite toroid.

===== PDF-side 499 =====

12-58
63%
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
86%
95% 98%
Applied
voltage
Current
1t
Counter emf
Current, counter emf, and applied voltage in an inductive circuit.
2t 3t 4t 5t
99%
Figure 12-126. Inductor curve.
Opposing magnetic fields
Combined magnetic fields
Coils with some separationA
Coils without separationB
Strong magnetic field in a coilC
Current       eee eee
Current       eee eee
Current 
eee eee
SouthNorth
Figure 12-125. Many loops of a coil.
Units of Inductance
The henry is the basic unit of inductance and is symbolized 
with the letter H. An electric circuit has an inductance of one 
henry when current changing at the rate of one ampere per 
second induces a voltage of one volt into the circuit. In many 
practical applications, millihenries (mH) and microhenries 
(μH) are more common units. The typical symbol for an 
inductor is shown in Figure 12-127.
Inductors in Series
If we connect two inductors in series, the same current flows 
through both inductors and, therefore, both are subject to 
the same rate of change of current. [Figure 12-128] When 
inductors are connected in series, the total inductance LT, is 
the sum of the individual inductors. The general equation for 
n number of inductors in series is:
LT = L1 + L2 + L3 + … LN
Inductors in Parallel
When two inductors are connected in parallel, each must 
have the same potential difference between the terminals. 
[Figure 12-129] When inductors are connected in parallel, 
the total inductance is less than the smallest inductance. The 
general equation for n number of inductors in parallel is:
 
LT =
+ +1
L1
1
L2
1
L3
1
LN
 1
+ . . .
A simple example would be:
 L 1 = 10 mH, L2 = 5 mH, L3 = 2 mH
 
LT =
+ +1
10 mH
1
5 mH
1
2 mH
 1
 LT = 0.8 mH
 1
 L T = 1.25 mH
Inductive Reactance
Alternating current is in a constant state of change; the effects 
of the magnetic fields are a continuously inducted voltage 
opposition to the current in the circuit. This opposition 
is called inductive reactance, symbolized by X L, and is 
measured in ohms just as resistance is measured. Inductance 
is the property of a circuit to oppose any change in current and 
is measured in henries. Inductive reactance is a measure of 
how much the countering emf in the circuit opposes current

===== PDF-side 500 =====

12-59
Inductor
+
L1 L2
−
Figure 12-127. Typical symbol for an inductor. Figure 12-128. Two inductors in series.
variations.
The inductive reactance of a component is directly 
proportional to the inductance of the component and the 
applied frequency to the circuit. By increasing either the 
inductance or applied frequency, the inductive reactance 
likewise increases and presents more opposition to current 
in the circuit. This relationship is given as:
 X L = 2πfL
 Where: XL = inductive reactance in ohms
 f  = frequency in cycles per second
 π = 3.1416
 L = inductance
In Figure 12-130, an AC series circuit is shown in which the 
inductance is 0.146 henry and the voltage is 110 volts at a 
frequency of 60 cps. Inductive reactance is determined by 
the following method.
 X L = 2π × f × L
 X L = 6.28 × 60 × 0.146
 X L = 55 ohm
In any circuit where there is only resistance, the expression 
for the relationship of voltage and current is given by Ohm’s 
Law: I = E/R. Similarly, when there is inductance in an AC 
circuit, the relationship between voltage and current can be 
expressed as:
 
Current = or I = V oltage  E
 Reactance  XL
 Where:
      XL = inductive reactance of the circuit in ohms
 
 I =  E
 XL
 
 I =  110
 55
         I = 2 amperes
In AC series circuits, inductive reactances are added like 
resistances in series in a DC circuit. [Figure 12-131] Thus, 
the total reactance in the illustrated circuit equals the sum of 
the individual reactances.
The total reactance of inductors connected in parallel is found 
the same way as the total resistance in a parallel circuit. 
[Figure 12-132]  Thus, the total reactance of inductances 
connected in parallel, as shown, is expressed as:
 
  
 
(XL)T =
+ +1
(XL)1
1
(XL)2
1
(XL)3
 1
AC Circuits
Ohm’s Law for AC Circuits
The rules and equations for DC circuits apply to AC circuits 
only when the circuits contain resistance alone, as in the case 
of lamps and heating elements. In order to use effective values 
of voltage and current in AC circuits, the effect of inductance 
and capacitance with resistance must be considered.
The combined effects of resistance, inductive reactance, 
and capacitive reactance make up the total opposition to 
current flow in an AC circuit. This total opposition is called 
impedance and is represented by the letter Z. The unit for 
the measurement of impedance is the ohm.
Series AC Circuits
If an AC circuit consists of resistance only, the value of the 
impedance is the same as the resistance, and Ohm’s Law for 
an AC circuit, I = E/Z, is exactly the same as for a DC circuit. 
In Figure 12-133, a series circuit containing a lamp with 11 
ohms resistance connected across a source is illustrated. To 
find how much current flows if 110 volts DC is applied and 
how much current flows if 110 volts AC are applied, the 
following examples are solved:
 
I =  E
 R   
I =         (where Z = R)  E
 Z
 
I = 110 V
 11 W   
I = 110 V
 11 W
 I = 10 amperes DC  I = 10 amperes AC
When AC circuits contain resistance and either inductance 
or capacitance, the impedance, Z, is not the same as the

===== PDF-side 501 =====

12-60
110V AC
60 cycles
A
XL1
XL2
Figure 12-130. AC circuit containing inductance.
Figure 12-131. Inductances in series.
+
L2
−
L1
Figure 12-129. Two inductors in parallel.
resistance, R. The impedance of a circuit is the circuit’s 
total opposition to the flow of current. In an AC circuit, 
this opposition consists of resistance and reactance, either 
inductive or capacitive or elements of both.
Resistance and reactance cannot be added directly, but they 
can be considered as two forces acting at right angles to 
each other. Thus, the relation between resistance, reactance, 
and impedance may be illustrated by a right triangle. 
[Figure 12-134]
Since these quantities may be related to the sides of a right 
triangle, the formula for finding the impedance, or total 
opposition to current flow in an AC circuit, can be found 
by using the law of right triangles. This theorem, called the 
Pythagorean theorem, applies to any right triangle. It states 
that the square of the hypotenuse is equal to the sum of the 
squares of the other two sides. Thus, the value of any side of a 
right triangle can be found if the other two sides are known. If 
an AC circuit contains resistance and inductance, as shown in 
Figure 12-135, the relation between the sides can be stated as:
 Z 2 = R2 + XL2
The square root of both sides of the equation gives
 Z = R2 + XL2
This formula can be used to determine the impedance when 
the values of inductive reactance and resistance are known. It 
can be modified to solve for impedance in circuits containing 
capacitive reactance and resistance by substituting XC in the 
formula in place of XL. In circuits containing resistance with 
both inductive and capacitive reactance, the reactances can be 
combined, but because their effects in the circuit are exactly 
opposite, they are combined by subtraction:
 X = XL − XC or X = XC − XL (the smaller number is  
 always subtracted from the larger)
In Figure 12-135, a series circuit consisting of resistance and 
inductance connected in series is connected to a source of 
110 volts at 60 cps. The resistive element is a lamp with 6 
ohms resistance, and the inductive element is a coil with an 
inductance of 0.021 henry. What is the value of the impedance 
and the current through the lamp and the coil?
Solution:
First, the inductive reactance of the coil is computed:
 X L = 2π × f × L
 X L = 6.28 × 60 × 0.021
 X L = 8 ohms inductive reactance
Next, the total impedance is computed:
 Z = R2 + XL2
 Z = 62 + 82
 Z = 36 + 64
 Z = 100
 Z = 10 ohms impedance
Then the current flow,
 
I =  E
 Z
 
I =  110
 10
 I = 11 amperes current

===== PDF-side 502 =====

12-61
XL2XL1
110 V
Reactance
Resistance
Z
R
Impedance
XL − XC
Figure 12-132. Inductances in parallel.
Figure 12-133. Applying DC and AC to a circuit.
Figure 12-134. Impedance triangle.
The voltage drop across the resistance (ER) is:
 E R = I × R
 E R = 11 × 6 = 66 volts
The voltage drop across the inductance (EXL) is:
EXL = I × XL
EXL = 11 × 8 = 88 volts
The sum of the two voltages is greater than the impressed 
voltage. This results from the fact that the two voltages are 
out of phase and, as such, represent the maximum voltage. 
If the voltage in the circuit is measured by a voltmeter, it is 
approximately 110 volts, the impressed voltage. This can be 
proved by the equation: 
 E = (ER)2 + (EXL)2
 E = 662 + 882
 E = 4,356 + 7,744
 E = 12,100
 E = 110 volts
In Figure 12-136, a series circuit is illustrated in which a 
capacitor of 200 µf is connected in series with a 10 ohm 
lamp. What is the value of the impedance, the current flow, 
and the voltage drop across the lamp?
Solution:
First, the capacitance is changed from microfarads to farads. 
Since 1 million microfarads equal 1 farad, then:
 
200 μf = = 0.000200 farads 200
1,000,000
 
 
XC =  1
2πfC
 
XC =  1
6.28 × 60 × 0.000200 farads
 
XC =  1
0.07536
 X C = 13 ohms capacitive reactance
To find the impedance, 
 Z = R2 + XC2
 Z = 102 + 132
 Z = 100 + 169
 Z = 269
 Z = 16.4 ohms capacitive reactance
To find the current,
 
 
I =  E
 Z
 
I =  110
 16.4
 I = 6.7 amperes
 
The voltage drop across the lamp (ER) is:
 E R = 6.7 × 10
 E R = 67 volts
The voltage drop across the capacitor (EXC) is
EXC = I × XC
EXC = 6.7 × 13
EXC = 86.1 volts

===== PDF-side 503 =====

12-62
110 V AC
60 cycles
10 Ω
200 μf
A
Figure 12-136. A circuit containing resistance and capacitance.
110V AC
60 cycles
0.021 henries
A
6 Ω
Figure 12-135. A circuit containing resistance and inductance.
The sum of these two voltages does not equal the applied 
voltage, since the current leads the voltage. To find the 
applied voltage, use the following formula:
 ET =   (ER)2 + (EXC)2
 ET = 672 + 86.12
 
 ET = 4,489 + 7,413
 ET = 11,902
 E T = 110 volts
When the circuit contains resistance, inductance, and 
capacitance, the following equation is used to find the 
impedance:
 Z = R2 + (XL – XC)2
Example: What is the impedance of a series circuit, 
consisting of a capacitor with a reactance of 7 ohms, an 
inductor with a reactance of 10 ohms, and a resistor with a 
resistance of 4 ohms? [Figure 12-137]
Solution:
 Z = R2 + (XL – XC)2
 Z = 42 + (10 – 7)2
 Z = 42 + 32
 Z = 25
 Z = 5 ohms
Assuming that the reactance of the capacitor is 10 ohms and 
the reactance of the inductor is 7 ohms, then X C is greater 
than XL. Thus,
 Z = R2 + (XL – XC)2
 Z = 42 + (7 – 10)2
 Z = 42 + (–3)2
 Z = 16 + 9
 Z = 25
 Z = 5 ohms
Parallel AC Circuits
The methods used in solving parallel AC circuit problems 
are basically the same as those used for series AC circuits. 
Out of phase voltages and currents can be added by using 
the law of right triangles. However, in solving circuit 
problems, the currents through the branches are added since 
the voltage drops across the various branches are the same 
and are equal to the applied voltage. In Figure 12-138 , a 
parallel AC circuit containing an inductance and a resistance 
is shown schematically. The current flowing through the 
inductance, I L, is 0.0584 ampere, and the current flowing 
through the resistance is 0.11 ampere. What is the total 
current in the circuit?
Solution:
 IT = IL2 + IR2 
     = (0.0584)2 + (0.11)2
     = 0.0155
     = 0.1245 ampere
Since inductive reactance causes voltage to lead the current, 
the total current, which contains a component of inductive 
current, lags the applied voltage. If the current and voltages 
are plotted, the angle between the two, called the phase angle, 
illustrates the amount the current lags the voltage.
In Figure 12-139, a 112-volt generator is connected to a load 
consisting of a 2 µf capacitance and a 10,000-ohm resistance 
in parallel. What is the value of the impedance and total 
current flow?
Solution:
First, find the capacitive reactance of the circuit:
 
XC =  1
 2πfC
Changing 2 μf to farads and entering the values into the 
formula given:

===== PDF-side 504 =====

12-63
110 V AC
60 cycles
4 Ω
10 Ω
7 Ω
Figure 12-137.  A circuit containing resistance, inductance, and 
capacitance.
 
=  1
2 × 3.14 × 60 × 0.000002
 
=  or 1  10,000
0.00075360 7.536
 = 1,327 XC capacitive reactance
To find the impedance, the impedance formula used in a 
series AC circuit must be modified to fit the parallel circuit:
 
Z = R2 + XC2
RXC
     = (10,000)2 + (1,327)2
10,000 × 1,327
 = 0.1315 W (approximately)
To find the current through the capacitance:
 
IC =  E
 XC
 
IC =  110
 1,327
 = 0.0829 ampere
To find the current flowing through the resistance:
 
IR =  E
 R
 
     =  110
 10,000
 = 0.011 ampere
To find the total current in the circuit:
 IT2 = IR2 + IC2 
 IT   = IL2 + IR2 
 = 0.0836 ampere (approximately)
Resonance
It has been shown that both inductive reactance:
 (X L = 2πfL) 
and capacitive reactance:
 
XC =  1
 2πfC
are functions of an AC frequency. Decreasing the frequency 
decreases the ohmic value of the inductive reactance, but a 
decrease in frequency increases the capacitive reactance. At 
some particular frequency, known as the resonant frequency, 
the reactive effects of a capacitor and an inductor is equal. 
Since these effects are the opposite of one another, they will 
cancel, leaving only the ohmic value of the resistance to 
oppose current flow in a circuit. If the value of resistance is 
small or consists only of the resistance in the conductors, the 
value of current flow can become very high.
In a circuit where the inductor and capacitor are in series, 
and the frequency is the resonant frequency, or frequency 
of resonance, the circuit is said to be “in resonance” and 
is referred to as a series resonant circuit. The symbol for 
resonant frequency is Fn.
If, at the frequency of resonance, the inductive reactance is 
equal to the capacitive reactance, then:
XL = XC, or
2πfL =  1
 2πfC
Dividing both sides by 2 fL,
Fn2 =  1
 (2π) 2LC
Extracting the square root of both sides gives:
Fn =  1
 2π     LC
Where Fn is the resonant frequency in cps, C is the 
capacitance in farads, and L is the inductance in henries. 
With this formula, the frequency at which a capacitor and 
inductor is resonant can be determined.
To find the inductive reactance of a circuit use:
XL = 2πfL
The impedance formula used in a series AC circuit must be 
modified to fit a parallel circuit.

===== PDF-side 505 =====

12-64
2 μf110VG 10,000 Ω
Figure 12-139. A parallel AC circuit containing capacitance and 
resistance.
IL
G IR5 henries
1000 Ω
Figure 12-138.  AC parallel circuit containing inductance and 
resistance.
    Z = R2 = XL2
XL 
To find the parallel networks of inductance and capacitive 
reactors, use:
X = XL + XC
XL + XC
To find the parallel networks with resistance capacitive and 
inductance, use:
Z = XL2 XC2 + (RXL – RXC)2
R XL XC
Since at the resonant frequency XL cancels XC, the current can 
become very large, depending on the amount of resistance. In 
such cases, the voltage drop across the inductor or capacitor 
is often higher than the applied voltage.
In a parallel resonant circuit, the reactances are equal and 
equal currents flow through the coil and the capacitor. 
[Figure 12-140]
Since the inductive reactance causes the current through the 
coil to lag the voltage by 90°, and the capacitive reactance 
causes the current through the capacitor to lead the voltage 
by 90°, the two currents are 180° out of phase. The canceling 
effect of such currents would mean that no current would 
flow from the generator and the parallel combination of 
the inductor and the capacitor would appear as infinite 
impedance. In practice, no such circuit is possible, since some 
value of resistance is always present, and the parallel circuit, 
sometimes called a tank circuit, acts as very high impedance. 
It is also called an antiresonant circuit, since its effect in a 
circuit is opposite to that of a series resonant circuit, in which 
the impedance is very low.
Power in AC Circuits
In a DC circuit, power is obtained by the equation, P = EI, 
(watts equal volts × amperes). Thus, if 1 ampere of current 
flows in a circuit at a pressure of 200 volts, the power is 200 
watts. The product of the volts and the amperes is the true 
power in the circuit.
True Power Defined
True power of any AC circuit is commonly referred to as 
the working power of the circuit. True power is the power 
consumed by the resistance portion of the circuit and is 
measured in watts. True power is symbolized by the letter P 
and is indicated by any wattmeter in the circuit. True power 
is calculated by the formula:
P = I2 × Z
Apparent Power Defined
Apparent power in an AC circuit is sometimes referred to as 
the reactive power of a circuit. Apparent power is the power 
consumed by the entire circuit, including both the resistance 
and the reactance. Apparent power is symbolized by the letter 
S and is measured in volt-amps (V A). Apparent power is a 
product of the effective voltage multiplied by the effective 
current. Apparent power is calculated by the formula:
S = I2 × Z
Only when the AC circuit is made up of pure resistance is 
the apparent power equal to the true power. [Figure 12-141] 
When there is capacitance or inductance in the circuit, the 
current and voltage are not exactly in phase, and the true 
power is less than the apparent power. The true power is 
obtained by a wattmeter reading. The ratio of the true power 
to the apparent power is called the power factor and is usually 
expressed in percent. In equation form, the relationship is:
Power Factor (PF) =  100 × watts (True Power)
volts × amperes (Apparent Power)
Example: A 220-volt AC motor takes 50 amperes from the 
line, but a wattmeter in the line shows that only 9,350 watts

===== PDF-side 506 =====

12-65
Figure 12-140. A parallel resonant circuit.
are taken by the motor. What are the apparent power and the 
power factor?
Solution:
 Apparent power = V olts × Amperes
 Apparent power = 220 × 50 = 11,000 watts or  
            volt-amperes.
 (PF) =  Watts (True Power) × 100
V A (Apparent Power)
 (PF) =  9,350 × 100
11,000
 (PF) = 85, or 85%
Transformers
A transformer changes electrical energy of a given voltage 
into electrical energy at a different voltage level. It consists of 
two coils that are not electrically connected, but are arranged 
so that the magnetic field surrounding one coil cuts through 
the other coil. When an alternating voltage is applied to 
(across) one coil, the varying magnetic field set up around that 
coil creates an alternating voltage in the other coil by mutual 
induction. A transformer can also be used with pulsating DC, 
but a pure DC voltage cannot be used, since only a varying 
voltage creates the varying magnetic field that is the basis 
of the mutual induction process.
A transformer consists of three basic parts. [Figure 12-142]  
These are an iron core, which provides a circuit of low 
reluctance for magnetic lines of force; a primary winding, 
which receives the electrical energy from the source of applied 
voltage; and a secondary winding, which receives electrical 
energy by induction from the primary coil.
The primary and secondary of this closed core transformer 
are wound on a closed core to obtain maximum inductive 
effect between the two coils.
There are two classes of transformers: voltage transformers, 
used for stepping up or stepping down voltages; and 
current transformers used in instrument circuits. In voltage 
transformers, the primary coils are connected in parallel 
across the supply voltage. [Figure 12-143A] The primary 
windings of current transformers are connected in series in 
the primary circuit. [Figure 12-143B] Of the two types, the 
voltage transformer is the more common.
There are many types of voltage transformers. Most of these 
are either step-up or step-down transformers. The factor 
that determines whether a transformer is a step-up or step-
down type is the “turns” ratio. The turns ratio is the ratio of 
the number of turns in the primary winding to the number 
of turns in the secondary winding. For example, the turns 
ratio of the step-down transformer is 5 to 1, since there are 
five times as many turns in the primary as in the secondary. 
[Figure 12-144A] The step-up transformer has a 1 to 4 turns 
ratio. [Figure 12-144B]
The ratio of the transformer input voltage to the output 
voltage is the same as the turns ratio if the transformer is 
100 percent efficient. Thus, when 10 volts are applied to 
the primary of the transformer, two volts are induced in the 
secondary. [Figure 12-144A] If 10 volts are applied to the 
primary of the transformer, the output voltage across the 
terminals of the secondary is 40 volts. [Figure 12-144B]
No transformer can be constructed that is 100 percent 
efficient, although iron core transformers can approach this 
figure. This is because all the magnetic lines of force set up 
in the primary do not cut across the turns of the secondary 
coil. A certain amount of the magnetic flux, called leakage 
flux, leaks out of the magnetic circuit. The measure of how 
well the flux of the primary is coupled into the secondary 
is called the “coefficient of coupling.” For example, if it is 
assumed that the primary of a transformer develops 10,000 
lines of force and only 9,000 cut across the secondary, the 
coefficient of coupling would be 0.9. Stated another way, the 
transformer would be 90 percent efficient.
When an AC voltage is connected across the primary terminals 
of a transformer, an AC flows and self induces a voltage in the 
primary coil that is opposite and nearly equal to the applied 
voltage. The difference between these two voltages allows 
just enough current in the primary to magnetize its core. This 
is called the exciting, or magnetizing, current. The magnetic 
field caused by this exciting current cuts across the secondary 
coil and induces a voltage by mutual induction.
If a load is connected across the secondary coil, the load current 
flowing through the secondary coil produces a magnetic field 
that tends to neutralize the magnetic field produced by the 
primary current. This reduces the self-induced (opposition) 
voltage in the primary coil and allows more primary current

===== PDF-side 507 =====

12-66
Primary coil
Secondary coil
S
P
Iron core
Figure 12-142. An iron-core transformer.
Reactive power
Watts
True power
Apparent power
volts x amperes
Figure 12-141. Power relations in AC circuit.
to flow. The primary current increases as the secondary load 
current increases, and decreases as the secondary load current 
decreases. When the secondary load is removed, the primary 
current is again reduced to the small exciting current sufficient 
only to magnetize the iron core of the transformer.
If a transformer steps up the voltage, it steps down the current 
by the same ratio. This should be evident if the power formula 
is considered, for the power (I × E) of the output (secondary) 
electrical energy is the same as the input (primary) power 
minus that energy loss in the transforming process. Thus, 
if 10 volts and 4 amps (40 watts of power) are used in the 
primary to produce a magnetic field, there is 40 watts of 
power developed in the secondary (disregarding any loss). 
If the transformer has a step-up ratio of 4 to 1, the voltage 
across the secondary is 40 volts and the current is 1 amp. The 
voltage is 4 times greater and the current is one-fourth the 
primary circuit value, but the power (I × E value) is the same.
When the turns ratio and the input voltage are known, the 
output voltage can be determined as follows:
 E2
 E1
 =  N2
 N1
Where E is the voltage of the primary, E2 is the output voltage 
of the secondary, and N1 and N2 are the number of turns of 
the primary and secondary, respectively.
Transposing the equation to find the output voltage gives:
 E2 =  E1 N2
 N1
The most commonly used types of voltage transformers are:
1. Power transformers are used to step up or step down 
voltages and current in many types of power supplies. 
They range in size from the small power transformer 
[Figure 12-145] used in a radio receiver to the large 
transformers used to step down high power line 
voltage to the 110–120 volt level used in homes.
 Figure 12-146 shows the schematic symbol for an 
iron core transformer. In this case, the secondary is 
made up of three separate windings. Each winding 
supplies a different circuit with a specific voltage, 
which saves the weight, space, and expense of three 
separate transformers. Each secondary has a midpoint 
connection called a “center tap,” which provides a 
selection of half the voltage across the whole winding. 
The leads from the various windings are color coded 
by the manufacturer. [Figure 12-146] This is a standard 
color code, but other codes or numbers may be used.
2. Audio transformers resemble power transformers. They 
have only one secondary and are designed to operate 
over the range of audio frequencies (20 to 20,000 cps).
3. RF transformers are designed to operate in equipment 
that functions in the radio range of frequencies. The 
symbol for the RF transformer is the same as for an RF 
choke coil. It has an air core as shown in Figure 12-147.
4. Autotransformers are normally used in power circuits; 
however, they may be designed for other uses. Two 
different symbols for autotransformers used in power 
or audio circuits are shown in Figure 12-148 . If 
used in an RF communication or navigation circuit 
[Figure 12-148B], it is the same, except there is no 
symbol for an iron core. The autotransformer uses 
part of a winding as a primary; and, depending on 
whether it is step up or step down, it uses all or part 
of the same winding as the secondary. For example, 
the autotransformer shown in Figure 12-148A could 
use the following possible choices for primary and 
secondary terminals.

===== PDF-side 508 =====

12-67
AC power supply
Load
AC power supply
Meter
To load
A B
10 turns
primary
2 turns
secondary
8 turns
secondary
2 turns
primary
A
B
Figure 12-143. Voltage and current transformers.
Figure 12-144. A step-down and a step-up transformer.
Current Transformers
Current transformers are used in AC power supply systems 
to sense generator line current and to provide a current, 
proportional to the line current, for circuit protection and 
control devices.
The current transformer is a ring-type transformer using a 
current carrying power lead as a primary (either the power 
lead or the ground lead of the AC generator). The current in 
the primary induces a current in the secondary by magnetic 
induction. The sides of all current transformers are marked 
“H1” and “H2” on the unit base. The transformers must 
be installed with the “H1” side toward the generator in the 
circuit in order to have proper polarity. The secondary of the 
transformer should never be left open while the system is being 
operated; to do so could cause dangerously high voltages and 
could overheat the transformer. Therefore, the transformer 
output connections should always be connected with a jumper 
when the transformer is not being used but is left in the system.
Transformer Losses
In addition to the power loss caused by imperfect coupling, 
transformers are subject to “copper” and “iron” losses. The 
resistance of the conductor comprising the turns of the coil 
causes copper loss. The iron losses are of two types: hysteresis 
loss and eddy current loss. Hysteresis loss is the electrical 
energy required to magnetize the transformer core, first in 
one direction and then in the other, in step with the applied 
alternating voltage. Eddy current loss is caused by electric 
currents (eddy currents) induced in the transformer core by 
the varying magnetic fields. To reduce eddy current losses, 
cores are made of laminations coated with an insulation, 
which reduces the circulation of induced currents.
Power in Transformers
Since a transformer does not add any electricity to the circuit 
but merely changes or transforms the electricity that already 
exists in the circuit from one voltage to another, the total 
amount of energy in a circuit must remain the same. If it were 
possible to construct a perfect transformer, there would be no 
loss of power in it; power would be transferred undiminished 
from one voltage to another.
Since power is the product of volts times amperes, an increase 
in voltage by the transformer must result in a decrease in 
current and vice versa. There cannot be more power in the 
secondary side of a transformer than there is in the primary. 
The product of amperes times volts remains the same.
The transmission of power over long distances is accomplished 
by using transformers. At the power source, the voltage is 
stepped up in order to reduce the line loss during transmission. 
At the point of utilization, the voltage is stepped down, since 
it is not feasible to use high voltage to operate motors, lights, 
or other electrical appliances.
DC Measuring Instruments
Understanding the functional design and operation of 
electrical measuring instruments is very important, since 
they are used in repairing, maintaining, and troubleshooting 
electrical circuits. The best and most expensive measuring 
instrument is of no use unless the technician knows what is

===== PDF-side 509 =====

12-68
Red
Red
Red - Yellow
Yellow
Black
Iron core
High-voltage
winding
5-volt winding
6-volt winding
Secondary windings
Black
Primary
Yellow
Green
Green
Green - Yellow
Yellow - Blue
1
2 Input
Output
3
Primary
1–2
1–2
1–3
1–3
2–3
2–3
used with
“         ”
“         ”
“         ”
“         ”
“         ”
“         ”
Secondary
1–3
2–3
1–2
2–3
1–3
1–2
A B
Figure 12-146.  Schematic symbol for an iron-core power 
transformer.
Figure 12-147. An air-core transformer.
Figure 12-148. Autotransformers.
Figure 12-145. Power supply transformer.
being measured and what each reading indicates. The purpose 
of the meter is to measure quantities existing in a circuit. For 
this reason, when a meter is connected to a circuit, it must 
not change the characteristics of that circuit.
Meters are either self-excited or externally excited. Those that 
are self-excited operate from a power source within the meter. 
Externally-excited meters get their power source from the 
circuit that they are connected to. The most common analog 
meters in use today are the voltmeter, ammeter, and ohmmeter. 
All of which operate on the principles of electromagnetism. 
The fundamental principle behind the operation of the meter 
is the interaction between magnetic fields created by a current 
gathered from the circuit in some manner. This interaction is 
between the magnetic fields of a permanent magnet and the 
coils of a rotating magnet. The greater the current through the 
coils of the rotating magnet, the stronger the magnetic field 
produced. A stronger field produces greater rotation of the coil. 
While some meters can be used for both DC and AC circuit 
measurement, only those used as DC instruments are discussed 
in this section. The meters used for AC, or for both AC and 
DC, are discussed in the study of AC theory and circuitry.
D’Arsonval Meter Movement
This basic DC type of meter movement—first employed 
by the French scientist, d’Arsonval, in making electrical 
measurement—is a current measuring device, which is 
used in the ammeter, voltmeter, and ohmmeter. The pointer 
is deflected in proportion to the amount of current through 
the coil. Basically, both the ammeter and the voltmeter are 
current measuring instruments, the principal difference being 
the method in which they are connected in a circuit. While an 
ohmmeter is also basically a current measuring instrument, 
it differs from the ammeter and voltmeter in that it provides 
its own source (self-excited) of power and contains other 
auxiliary circuits.
Current Sensitivity and Resistance
The current sensitivity of a meter movement is the amount of 
current required to drive the meter movement to a full-scale 
deflection. A simple example would be a meter movement 
that has 1 mA sensitivity. What this indicates is that meter 
movement requires 1 mA of current to move the needle to 
a full-scale indication. Likewise, a half-scale deflection 
requires only 0.5 mA of current. Additionally, what is called

===== PDF-side 510 =====

12-69
movement resistance is the actual DC resistance of the wire 
used to construct the meter coil.
In a standard d’Arsonval meter, movement may have a 
current sensitivity of 1 mA and a resistance of 50 Ω. If the 
meter is going to be used to measure more than 1 mA, then 
additional circuitry is required to accomplish the task. This 
additional circuitry is a simple shunt resistor. The purpose 
of the shunt resistor is to bypass current that exceeds the 
1 mA limitation of the meter movement. To illustrate this, 
assume that the 1 mA meter in question is needed to measure 
10 mA. The shunt resistor used should carry 9 mA while 
the remaining 1 mA is allowed to pass through the meter. 
[Figure 12-149]
To determine the proper shunt resistance for this situation: 
 R SH = Shunt resistance
 R M = Meter resistance = 50 Ω
Because the shunt resistance and the 50 Ω meter resistance are 
in parallel, the voltage drop across both of them is the same.
 E SH = EM
Using Ohm’s Law, this relationship can be rewritten as:
 E SH = ISH × RSH
 E M = IM × RM
 I SH × RSH = IM × RM
Simply solve for RSH
 
 
RSH = IM × RM
ISH
Substituting the values
 
 
RSH =      = 5.56 ΩImA × 50 Ω
9 mA
Damping
To make meter readings quickly and accurately, it is 
desirable that the moving pointer overshoot its proper 
position only a small amount and come to rest after not more 
than one or two small oscillations. The term “damping” is 
applied to methods used to bring the pointer of an electrical 
meter to rest after it has been set in motion. Damping may 
be accomplished by electrical means, by mechanical means, 
or by a combination of both.
Electrical Damping
A common method of damping by electrical means is to wind 
the moving coil on an aluminum frame. As the coil moves 
in the field of the permanent magnet, eddy currents are set 
up in the aluminum frame. The magnetic field produced by 
the eddy currents opposes the motion of the coil. The pointer 
therefore swings more slowly to its proper position and comes 
to rest quickly with very little oscillation.
Mechanical Damping
Air damping is a common method of damping by mechanical 
means. As shown in Figure 12-150, a vane is attached to the 
shaft of the moving element and enclosed in an air chamber. 
The movement of the shaft is retarded because of the 
resistance that the air offers to the vane. Effective damping is 
achieved if the vane nearly touches the walls of the chamber.
A Basic Multirange Ammeter
Building upon the basic meter previously discussed is the more 
complex and useful multirange meter, which is more practical. 
The basic idea of a multirange ammeter is to make the meter 
usable over a wide range of voltages. In order to accomplish 
this, each range must utilize a different shunt resistance. The 
example given in this handbook is that of a two-range meter. 
However, once the basics of a two-range multirange ammeter 
are understood, the concepts can easily be transferred to the 
design of meters with many selectable ranges.
Figure 12-151 shows the schematic of an ammeter with two 
selectable ranges. This example builds upon the previous 
10 mA range meter by adding a 100 mA range. With the 
switch selected to the 10 mA range, the meter indicates 
10 mA when the needle is deflected to full-scale and likewise 
indicates 100 mA at full-scale when selected to 100 mA. The 
value of the 100 mA shunt resistor is determined the same 
way the 10 mA shunt resistor was determined. Recall that 
the meter movement can only carry 1 mA. This means that 
in a 100 mA range the remaining current of 99 mA must pass 
through the shunt resistor.
 
RSH = IM × RM
ISH
Substituting the values:
  
 
RSH =     = 0.51 ΩImA × 50 Ω
99 mA
Precautions
The precautions to observe when using an ammeter are 
summarized as follows:
1. Always connect ammeter in series with the element

===== PDF-side 511 =====

12-70
Meter movement
[+] [−]
RSH
ISH
IMM
Meter movement
Basic ammeter
[+] [−]
RSH
ISH
1 mA
10 mA
9 mA
Figure 12-149. Basic meter drawing.
through which the current flow is to be measured.
2. Never connect an ammeter across a source of voltage, 
such as a battery or generator. Remember that the 
resistance of an ammeter, particularly on the higher 
ranges, is extremely low and that any voltage, even a 
volt or so, can cause very high current to flow through 
the meter, causing damage to it.
3. Use a range large enough to keep the deflection less 
than full-scale. Before measuring a current, form 
some idea of its magnitude. Then switch to a large 
enough scale or start with the highest range and 
work down until the appropriate scale is reached. The 
most accurate readings are obtained at approximately 
half-scale deflection. Many milliammeters have been 
ruined by attempts to measure amperes. Therefore, 
be sure to read the lettering either on the dial or on 
the switch positions and choose proper scale before 
connecting the meter in the circuit.
4. Observe proper polarity in connecting the meter in the 
circuit. Current must flow through the coil in a definite 
direction in order to move the indicator needle up 
scale. Current reversal because of incorrect connection 
in the circuit results in a reversed meter deflection and 
frequently causes bending of the meter needle. Avoid 
improper meter connections by observing the polarity 
markings on the meter.
The Voltmeter
The voltmeter uses the same type of meter movement as 
the ammeter but employs a different circuit external to the 
meter movement.
As shown before, the voltage drop across the meter coil 
is a function of current and the coil resistance. In another 
example, 50 μA × 1,000 Ω = 50 mV . In order for the meter to 
be used to measure voltages greater than 50 mV , there must 
be added a series resistance to drop any excess voltage greater 
than that which the meter movement requires for a full-scale 
deflection. The case of the voltmeter, this resistance is called 
multiplier resistance and is designated as RM. [Figure 12-152] 
The voltmeter only has one multiplier resistor for use in one 
range. In this example, the full-scale reading is 1 volt. RM is 
determined in the following way:
The meter movement drops 50 mV at a full-scale deflection of 
50 μA. The multiplying resistor RM must drop the remaining 
voltage of 1 V − 50 mV = 950 mV . Since RM is in series with 
the movement, it also carries 50 μA at full scale.
RM =             = 19k Ω 950 mV
50 μA
Therefore, for 1 volt full-scale deflection, the total resistance 
of the voltmeter is 20k Ω. That is, the multiplier resistance 
and the coil resistance.
Voltmeter Sensitivity
V oltmeter sensitivity is defined in terms of resistance per 
volt (Ω/V). The meter used in the previous example has a 
sensitivity of 20k Ω and a full-scale deflection of 1 volt.
Multiple Range Voltmeters
The simplified voltmeter in Figure 12-152 has only one range 
(1 volt), which means that it can measure voltages from 0 
volts to 1 volt. In order for the meter to be more useful, 
additional multiplier resistors must be used. One resistor 
must be used for each desired range.
For a 50 μA movement, the total resistance required is 20k 
Ω for each volt of full-scale reading. In other words, the 
sensitivity for a 50 μA movement is always 20k Ω regardless 
of the selected range. The full-scale meter current is 50 μA at 
any range selection. To find the total meter resistance, multiply 
the sensitivity by the full-scale voltage for that particular range. 
For example for a 10 volt range, RT = (20k Ω/V) (10V) = 200k Ω. 
The total resistance for the 1 volt range is 20k Ω, so RM for 
a 10 V range is 200k Ω − 20k Ω = 180k Ω. [Figure 12-153]

===== PDF-side 512 =====

12-71
Closed air chamber
Light vane swinging in 
chamber with small 
clearance
1mA, 50 ohm movement
[+]
[−]
10mA
100mA
5.56Ω
5.51Ω
Figure 12-150. Air damping.
Figure 12-151. Ammeter with two ranges.
Voltmeter Circuit Connections
When voltmeters are used, they are connected in parallel 
with a circuit. If unsure about the voltage to be measured, 
take the first reading at the high value on the meter and then 
progressively move down through the range until a suitable 
read is obtained. Observe that the polarity is correct before 
connecting the meter to the circuit or damage occurs by 
driving the movement backwards.
Influence of the Voltmeter in the Circuit
When a voltmeter is connected across two points in a circuit, 
current is shunted. If the voltmeter has low resistance, it draws 
off a significant amount of current. This lowers the effective 
resistance of the circuit and change the voltage readings. 
When making a voltage measurement, use a high resistance 
voltmeter to prevent shunting of the circuit.
The Ohmmeter
The meter movement used for the ammeter and the voltmeter 
can also be used for the ohmmeter. The function of the 
ohmmeter is to measure resistance. A simplified one-stage 
ohmmeter is illustrated in Figure 12-154, which shows that 
the basic ohmmeter contains a battery and a variable resistor 
in series with the meter movement. To measure resistance, the 
leads of the meter are connected across an external resistance, 
which is to be measured. By doing this, the ohmmeter circuit 
is completed. This connection allows the internal battery 
to produce a current through the movement coil, causing 
a deflection of the pointer proportional to the value of the 
external resistance being measured.
Zero Adjustment
When the ohmmeter leads are open, the meter is at a full-scale 
deflection, indicating an infinite (∞) resistance or an open 
circuit. [Figure 12-155] When the leads are shorted as shown 
in figure “zero adjust,” the pointer is at the full right-hand 
position, indicating a short circuit or zero resistance. The 
purpose of the variable resistor in this figure is to adjust the 
current so that the pointer is at exactly zero when the leads 
are shorted. This is used to compensate for changes in the 
internal battery voltage due to aging.
Ohmmeter Scale
Figure 12-156  shows a typical analog ohmmeter scale. 
Between zero and infinity (∞), the scale is marked to indicate 
various resistor values. Because the values decrease from left 
to right, this scale is often called a back-off scale.
In the case of the example given, assume that a certain 
ohmmeter uses a 50 μA, 1,000 Ω meter movement and has 
an internal 1.5 volt battery. A current of 50 μA produces a 
full-scale deflection when the test leads are shorted. To have 
50 μA, the total ohmmeter resistance is 1.5 V/50 μA = 30k Ω. 
Therefore, since the coil resistance is 1k Ω, the variable zero 
adjustment resistor must be set to 30k Ω – 1k Ω = 29k Ω.
Now consider that a 120k Ω resistor is connected to 
the ohmmeter leads. Combined with the 30k Ω internal 
resistance, the total R is 150k Ω. The current is 1.5 V/150k 
Ω = 10 μA, which is 20 percent of the full-scale current and 
appears on the scale shown in Figure 12-156.
Now consider further that a 120k Ω resistor is connected to 
the ohmmeter leads. This results in a current of 1.5 V/75k Ω = 
10 μA, which is 40 percent of the full-scale current and 
marked on the scale. Additional calculations of this type 
show that the scale is nonlinear. It is more compressed 
toward the left side than the right side. The center scale point 
corresponds to the internal meter resistance of 30k Ω. The 
reason is as follows:

===== PDF-side 513 =====

12-72
1k ohm movement
[+]
[−]
10 V 1 V
RM2
180k Ω 19k Ω
RM1 0∞
Basic voltmeter
Figure 12-153. Two range voltmeter.
50A, 1k ohm movement
[+] [−]
RM
Figure 12-152. Basic voltmeter.
With 30k Ω connected to the leads, the current is 1.5 V/60k Ω 
= 25 μA, which is half of the full-scale current of 50 μA.
The Multirange Ohmmeter
A practical ohmmeter has several operational ranges. These 
typically are indicated by R × 1, R × 10, R × 100, R × 1k, 
R × 100k and R × 1M. These range selections are interpreted 
in a different manner than that of an ammeter or voltmeter. 
The reading on the ohmmeter scale is multiplied by the factor 
indicated by the range setting. For example, if the pointer is 
set on the scale and the range switch is set at R × 100, the 
actual resistance measurement is 20 × 100 or 2k Ω.
To measure small resistance values, the technician must use 
a higher ohmmeter current than is needed for measuring 
large resistance values. Shunt resistors are needed to provide 
multiple ranges on the ohmmeter to measure a range of 
resistance values from the very small to very large. For each 
range, a different value of shunt resistance is switched in. 
The shunt resistance increases for higher ohm ranges and 
is always equal to the center scale reading on any selected 
range. In some meters, a higher battery voltage is used for 
the highest ohm range. [Figure 12-157]
Megger (Megohmmeter)
The megger, or megohmmeter, is a high range ohmmeter 
containing a hand-operated generator. It is used to measure 
insulation resistance and other high-resistance values. It is 
also used for ground, continuity, and short-circuit testing of 
electrical power systems. The chief advantage of the megger 
over an ohmmeter is its capacity to measure resistance with a 
high potential, or “breakdown” voltage. This type of testing 
ensures that insulation or a dielectric material will not short 
or leak under potential electrical stress.
The megger consists of two primary elements, both of which 
are provided with individual magnetic fields from a common 
permanent magnet: a hand-driven DC generator, G, which 
supplies the necessary current for making the measurement; 
and the instrument portion, which indicates the value of the 
resistance being measured. The instrument portion is of the 
opposed coil type. Coils A and B are mounted on the movable 
member with a fixed angular relationship to each other and 
are free to turn as a unit in a magnetic field. Coil B tends to 
move the pointer counterclockwise and coil A, clockwise. The 
coils are mounted on a light, movable frame that is pivoted in 
jewel bearings and free to move about axis 0. [Figure 12-158]
Coil A is connected in series with R3 and the unknown 
resistance, RX, to be measured. The series combination of 
coil A, R3, and RX is connected between the + and − brushes 
of the DC generator. Coil B is connected in series with R2, 
and this combination is also connected across the generator. 
There are no restraining springs on the movable member of 
the instrument portion of the megger. When the generator is 
not in operation, the pointer floats freely and may come to 
rest at any position on the scale.
If the terminals are open circuited, no current flows in coil 
A, and the current in coil B alone controls the movement 
of the moving element. Coil B takes a position opposite 
the gap in the core (since the core cannot move and coil B 
can), and the pointer indicates infinity on the scale. When a 
resistance is connected between the terminals, current flows 
in coil A, tending to move the pointer clockwise. At the same 
time, coil B tends to move the pointer counterclockwise. 
Therefore, the moving element, composed of both coils and 
the pointer, comes to rest at a position at which the two forces 
are balanced. This position depends upon the value of the 
external resistance, which controls the relative magnitude of 
current of coil A. Because changes in voltage affect both coils 
A and B in the same proportion, the position of the moving 
element is independent of the voltage. If the terminals are 
short circuited, the pointer rests at zero because the current 
in A is relatively large. The instrument is not damaged under 
these circumstances because the current is limited by R3.
There are two types of hand-driven meggers: the variable 
type and the constant pressure type. The speed of the variable 
pressure megger is dependent on how fast the hand crank

===== PDF-side 514 =====

12-73
0
0 Ω
∞
40% full-scale 45k Ω
50% full-scale 30k Ω
Full-scale
Simplified Ohmmeter Scale
Meter movement
[+]
+
[−]
−
Open
Adjuster
0∞
Meter movement
[+]
+
[−]
−
Shorted
Adjuster
Internal battery
0∞
Meter movement
[+]
+
[−]
−
Test probes
0∞
Meter movement
[+]
+
[−]
−
External resistor
Current
Internal battery
Internal battery
Basic voltmeter
Basic voltmeter
0∞
Figure 12-156. Ohm scale.
Figure 12-155. Zero adjustment.
Figure 12-154. Basic ohmmeter.
is turned. The constant pressure megger uses a centrifugal 
governor, or slip clutch. The governor becomes effective only 
when the megger is operated at a speed above its slip speed, 
at which speed its voltage remains constant.
AC Measuring Instruments
A DC meter, such as an ammeter, connected in an AC circuit 
indicates zero, because the meter movements used in a 
d’Arsonval type movement is restricted to DC. Since the field 
of a permanent magnet in the d’Arsonval type meter remains 
constant and in the same direction at all times, the moving coil 
follows the polarity of the current. The coil attempts to move 
in one direction during half of the AC cycle and in the reverse 
direction during the other half when the current reverses.
The current reverses direction too rapidly for the coil to 
follow, causing the coil to assume an average position. Since 
20% full-scale 120k Ω

===== PDF-side 515 =====

12-74
Meter movement
[+] [−]
−
+
Adjuster
R x 1
Range switch
R x 10
R x 100
R x 1k
R x 10k
0∞
Figure 12-157. Multirange ohmmeter.
the current is equal and opposite during each half of the AC 
cycle, the DC meter indicates zero, which is the average value. 
Thus, a meter with a permanent magnet cannot be used to 
measure alternating voltage and current. For AC measurements 
of current and voltage, additional circuitry is required. The 
additional circuitry has a rectifier, which converts AC to DC. 
There are two basic types of rectifiers: the half-wave rectifier 
and the full-wave rectifier. [Figure 12-159]
Figure 12-159 also shows a simplified block diagram of an 
AC meter. In this depiction, the full-wave rectifier precedes 
the meter movement. The movement responds to the average 
value of the pulsating DC. The scale can then be calibrated 
to show anything the designer wants. In most cases, it is the 
root mean square (RMS) value or peak value.
Electrodynamometer Meter Movement
The electrodynamometer can be used to measure alternating or 
direct voltage and current. It operates on the same principles 
as the permanent magnet moving coil meter, except that the 
permanent magnet is replaced by an air core electromagnet. 
The field of the electrodynamometer is developed by the same 
current that flows through the moving coil. [Figure 12-160]
Because this movement contains no iron, the 
electrodynamometer can be used as a movement for both AC 
and DC instruments. AC can be measured by connecting the 
stationary and moving coils in series. Whenever the current 
in the moving coil reverses, the magnetic field produced 
by the stationary coil reverses. Regardless of the direction 
of the current, the needle moves in a clockwise direction. 
However, for either voltmeter or ammeter applications, 
the electrodynamometer is too expensive to economically 
compete with the d’Arsonval-type movement.
Moving Iron Vane Meter
The moving iron vane meter is another basic type of meter. 
It can be used to measure either AC or DC. Unlike the 
d’Arsonval meter, which employs permanent magnets, it 
depends on induced magnetism for its operation. It utilizes the 
principle of repulsion between two concentric iron vanes, one 
fixed and one movable, placed inside a solenoid. A pointer is 
attached to the movable vane. [Figure 12-161]
When current flows through the coil, the two iron vanes 
become magnetized with North poles at their upper ends and 
South poles at their lower ends for one direction of current 
through the coil. Because like poles repel, the unbalanced 
component of force, tangent to the movable element, causes 
it to turn against the force exerted by the springs.
The movable vane is rectangular in shape and the fixed 
vane is tapered. This design permits the use of a relatively 
uniform scale.
When no current flows through the coil, the movable vane 
is positioned so that it is opposite the larger portion of the 
tapered fixed vane, and the scale reading is zero. The amount 
of magnetization of the vanes depends on the strength of 
the field, which, in turn, depends on the amount of current 
flowing through the coil.
The force of repulsion is greater opposite the larger end of 
the fixed vane than it is nearer the smaller end. Therefore, 
the movable vane moves toward the smaller end through an 
angle that is proportional to the magnitude of the coil current. 
The movement ceases when the force of repulsion is balanced 
by the restraining force of the spring.
Because the repulsion is always in the same direction (toward 
the smaller end of the fixed vane), regardless of the direction 
of current flow through the coil, the moving iron vane 
instrument operates on either DC or AC circuits.
Mechanical damping in this type of instrument can be obtained 
by the use of an aluminum vane attached to the shaft so that, 
as the shaft moves, the vane moves in a restricted air space.
When the moving iron vane meter is used as an ammeter, the 
coil is wound with relatively few turns of large wire in order 
to carry the rated current. When the moving iron vane meter is 
used as a voltmeter, the solenoid is wound with many turns of 
small wire. Portable voltmeters are made with self-contained 
series resistance for ranges up to 750 volts. Higher ranges are 
obtained by the use of additional external multipliers.

===== PDF-side 516 =====

12-75
Hand
generator
Ohmmeter
Axis O
−
+
R2
R3
RX
0
Inf.
M
M
G
ACB
Half-wave rectifier
Full-wave rectifier
Simple AC voltmeter
Full-wave
rectifier
AC In Pulsing DC
AC In Pulsing DC
AC In0
0
0 0
0
AC converted to pulsing DC
on every positive half-cycle
AC converted to pulsing DC
on both positive and
negative half-cycle
Figure 12-158. Simplified megger circuit.
Figure 12-159. Simplified block diagram of AC meter.
The moving iron vane instrument may be used to measure 
DC but has an error due to residual magnetism in the vanes. 
Reversing the meter connections and averaging the readings 
may minimize the error. When used on AC circuits, the 
instrument has an accuracy of 0.5 percent. Because of its 
simplicity, relatively low cost, and the fact that no current is 
conducted to the moving element, this type of movement is 
used extensively to measure current and voltage in AC power 
circuits. However, because the reluctance of the magnetic 
circuit is high, the moving iron vane meter requires much 
more power to produce full-scale deflection than is required 
by a d’Arsonval meter of the same range. Therefore, the 
moving iron vane meter is seldom used in high-resistance 
low-power circuits.
Inclined Coil Iron Vane Meter
The principle of the moving iron vane mechanism is applied 
to the inclined coil type of meter, which can be used to 
measure both AC and DC. The inclined coil, iron vane 
meter has a coil mounted at an angle to the shaft. Attached 
obliquely to the shaft, and located inside the coil, are two 
soft iron vanes. When no current flows through the coil, a 
control spring holds the pointer at zero, and the iron vanes 
lie in planes parallel to the plane of the coil. When current 
flows through the coil, the vanes tend to line up with magnetic 
lines passing through the center of the coil at right angles to 
the plane of the coil. Thus, the vanes rotate against the spring 
action to move the pointer over the scale.
The iron vanes tend to line up with the magnetic lines 
regardless of the direction of current flow through the coil. 
Therefore, the inclined coil, iron vane meter can be used to 
measure either AC or DC. The aluminum disk and the drag 
magnets provide electromagnetic damping.
Like the moving iron vane meter, the inclined coil type requires 
a relatively large amount of current for full-scale deflection and 
is seldom used in high-resistance low-power circuits.
As in the moving iron vane instruments, the inclined coil 
instrument is wound with few turns of relatively large wire 
when used as an ammeter and with many turns of small wire 
when used as a voltmeter.
Varmeters
Multiplying the volts by the amperes in an AC circuit gives 
the apparent power: the combination of the true power (which 
does the work) and the reactive power (which does no work 
and is returned to the line). Reactive power is measured in 
units of vars (volt-amperes reactive) or kilovars (kilovolt-
amperes reactive (kV AR). When properly connected, 
wattmeters measure the reactive power. As such, they are 
called varmeters. [Figure 12-162]

===== PDF-side 517 =====

12-76
Fixed coils 
Shunt 
Movable coils
A
A
B
C
B
C
Pointer
Control spring
Cylindrical coil
Moving iron segment Stationary iron segment
Figure 12-160.  Simplified diagram of an electrodynamometer 
movement. Figure 12-161. Moving iron vane meter.
Wattmeter
Electric power is measured by means of a wattmeter. Because 
electric power is the product of current and voltage, a 
wattmeter must have two elements, one for current and the 
other for voltage. For this reason, wattmeters are usually of 
the electrodynamometer type. [Figure 12-163]
The movable coil with a series resistance forms the voltage 
element, and the stationary coils constitute the current 
element. The strength of the field around the potential coil 
depends on the amount of current that flows through it. The 
current, in turn, depends on the load voltage applied across 
the coil and the high resistance in series with it. The strength 
of the field around the current coils depends on the amount of 
current flowing through the load. Thus, the meter deflection is 
proportional to the product of the voltage across the potential 
coil and the current through the current coils. The effect is 
almost the same (if the scale is properly calibrated) as if the 
voltage applied across the load and the current through the 
load were multiplied together.
If the current in the line is reversed, the direction of current in 
both coils and the potential coil is reversed, the net result is 
that the pointer continues to read up scale. Therefore, this type 
of wattmeter can be used to measure either AC or DC power.
Frequency Measurement/Oscilloscope
The oscilloscope is by far one of the more useful electronic 
measurements available. The viewing capabilities of the 
oscilloscope make it possible to see and quantify various 
waveform characteristics, such as phase relationships, 
amplitudes, and durations. While oscilloscopes come in 
a variety of configurations and presentations, the basic 
operation is typically the same. Most oscilloscopes in general 
bench or shop applications use a cathode-ray tube (CRT), 
which is the device or screen that displays the waveforms. 
The CRT is a vacuum instrument that contains an electron gun, 
which emits a very narrow and focused beam of electrons. A 
phosphorescent coat applied to the back of the screen forms 
the screen. The beam is electronically aimed and accelerated 
so that the electron beam strikes the screen. When the electron 
beam strikes the screen, light is emitted at the point of impact.
Figure 12-164  shows the basic components of the CRT 
with a block diagram. The heated cathode emits electrons. 
The magnitude of voltage on the control grid determines 
the actual flow of electrons and thus controls the intensity 
of the electron beam. The acceleration anodes increase the 
speed of the electrons, and the focusing anode narrows the 
beam down to a fine point. The surface of the screen is also 
an anode and assists in the acceleration of the electron beam.

===== PDF-side 518 =====

12-77
LoadCurrent
coil
Varmeter
Reactor
Voltage
coil M
Figure 12-162. A varmeter connected in an AC circuit.
The purpose of the vertical and horizontal deflection plates 
is to bend the electron beam and position it to a specific 
point of the screen. [Figure 12-165] By providing a neutral 
or zero voltage to a deflection plate, the electron beam is 
unaffected. By applying a negative voltage to a plate, the 
electron beam is repelled and driven away from the plate. 
Finally, by applying a positive voltage, the electron beam is 
drawing to the plate. Figure 12-165 provides a few possible 
plate voltage combinations and the resultant beam position.
Horizontal Deflection
To get a visual representation of the input signal, an internally 
generated saw-tooth voltage is generated and then applied 
to the horizontal deflection plates. Figure 12-166 illustrates 
that the saw-tooth is a pattern of voltage applied, which 
begins at a negative voltage and increases at a constant rate 
to a positive voltage. This applied varying voltage draws or 
traces the electron beam from the far left of the screen to the 
far right side of the screen. The resulting display is a straight 
line, if the sweep rate is fast enough. This saw-tooth applied 
voltage is a repetitive signal so that the beam is repeatedly 
swept across the tube. The rate at which the saw-tooth voltage 
goes from negative to positive is determined by the frequency. 
This rate then establishes the sweep rate of the beam. When 
the saw-tooth reaches the end of its sweep from left to right, 
the beam then rapidly returns to the left side and is ready to 
make another sweep. During this time, the electron beam is 
stopped or blanked out and does not produce any kind of a 
trace. This period of time is called flyback.
Vertical Deflection
If this same signal were applied to the vertical plates, it would 
also produce a vertical line by causing the beam to trace from 
the down position to the up position.
Tracing a Sine Wave
Reproducing the sine wave on the oscilloscope combines 
both the vertical and horizontal deflection patterns. 
[Figure 12-167] If the sine wave voltage signal is applied 
across the vertical deflection plates, the result will be the 
vertical beam oscillation up and down on the screen. The 
amount that the beam moves above the centerline depends 
on the peak value of the voltage.
While the beam is being swept from the left to the right by 
the horizontal plates, the sine wave voltage is being applied 
to the vertical plates, causing the form of the input signal to 
be traced out on the screen.
Control Features on an Oscilloscope
While there are many different styles of oscilloscopes, which 
range from the simple to the complex, they all have some 
controls in common. Apart from the screen and the ON/OFF 
switch, some of these controls are listed as follows:
• Horizontal Position—allows for the adjustment of the 
neutral horizontal position of the beam. Use this control 
to reposition the waveform display in order to have a 
better view of the wave or to take measurements.
•  Vertical Position—moves the traced image up or down 
allowing better observations and measurements.
•  Focus—controls the electron beam as it is aimed and 
converges on the screen. When the beam is in sharp 
focus, it is narrowed down to a very fine point and 
does not have a fuzzy appearance.
•  Intensity—essentially the brightness of the trace. 
Controlling the flow of electrons onto the screen varies 
the intensity. Do not keep the intensity too high for 
extended testing or when the beam is motionless and 
forms a dot on the screen. This can damage the screen.
•  Seconds/Division—a time-based control that sets the 
horizontal sweep rate. Basically, the switch is used 
to select the time interval that each division on the 
horizontal scale represents. These divisions can be 
seconds, milliseconds, or even microseconds. A simple 
example would be if the technician had the seconds/
division control set to 10 μS. If this technician is 
viewing a waveform that has a period of 4 divisions 
on the screen, then the period would be 40 μS. The 
frequency of this waveform can then be determined 
by taking the inverse of the period. In this case, 1⁄40 μS 
equals a frequency of 25 kHz.
• V olts/Division—used to select the voltage interval 
that each division on the vertical scale represents. 
For example, suppose each vertical division was set 
to equal 10 mV . If a waveform was measured and 
had a peak value of 4 divisions, then the peak value 
in voltage would be 40 mV .
• Trigger—The trigger control provides synchronization 
between the saw-tooth horizontal sweep and the applied 
signal on the vertical plates. The benefit is that the 
waveform on the screen appears to be stationary and 
fixed and not drifting across the screen. A triggering 
circuit is used to initiate the start of a sweep rather than

===== PDF-side 519 =====

12-78
CRT
base
Anode
ScreenMating
connector
Horizontal deflection plates (H)Preaccelerating anode (A1)
Cathode (K) & heater
Control grid Vertical deflection plates (V)
Accelerating anode (A3)
Focus anode (A2)
Electron gun
e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e
Figure 12-164. Basic components of the CRT with a block diagram.
R Current coil
M
Potential
coil
Load
Figure 12-163. Simplified electrodynamometer wattmeter circuit.
the fixed saw-tooth sweep rate. In a typical oscilloscope, 
this triggering signal comes from the input signal 
itself at a selected point during the signal’s cycle. The 
horizontal signal goes through one sweep, retraces back 
to the left side and waits there until it is triggered again 
by the input signal to start another sweep.
Flat Panel Color Displays for Oscilloscopes
While the standard CRT design of oscilloscope is still in 
service, the technology of display and control has evolved 
into use of the flat panel monitors. Furthermore, the newer 
oscilloscopes can even be integrated with the common 
personal computer (PC). [Figure 12-168] Some of the features 
of this technology include easy data capture, data transfer, 
documentation, and data analysis. Hand-held oscilloscopes are 
now available that can perform the functions of larger bench 
type equipment but are mobile and great tools for trouble 
shooting. [Figure 12-169]
Digital Multimeter
Traditionally, the meters that technicians have used have been 
the analog voltmeter, ammeter, and the ohmmeter. These 
have usually been combined into the same instrument and 
called a multimeter or a VOM (volt-ohm-milliammeter). This 
approach has been both convenient and economical. Digital 
multimeters (DMM) and digital voltmeters (DVM) are more 
common due to their ease of use. These meters are easier to 
read and provide greater accuracy when compared to the 
older analog units with needle movement. The multimeter’s 
single-coil movement requires a number of scales, which are 
not always easy to read accurately. In addition, the loading 
characteristics due to the internal resistance sometimes 
affect the circuit and the measurements. Not only does the 
DVM offer greater accuracy and less ambiguity, but also 
higher input resistance, which has less of a loading effect 
and influence on a circuit.
Basic Circuit Analysis & Troubleshooting
Troubleshooting is the systematic process of recognizing 
the symptoms of a problem, identifying the possible cause, 
and locating the failed component or conductor in the 
circuit. To be proficient at troubleshooting, the technician 
must understand how the circuit operates and know how to 
properly use the test equipment. There are many ways in 
which a system can fail and to cover all of the possibilities is 
beyond the scope of this handbook. However, there are some 
basic concepts that enable the technician to handle many of 
the common faults encountered in the aircraft.
Before starting a discussion on basic circuits and 
troubleshooting, the following definitions are given.
• Short circuit—an unintentional low resistance path 
between two components in a circuit or between a

===== PDF-side 520 =====

12-79
Applied(0) volts
(+) volts
Horizontal
deflection
plates (H)
Vertical
deflection plates (V)
(0) volts
The horizontal
beam position
will depend on
the applied
saw-tooth
voltage
Voltage starts at a maximum
negative value and increases to a
maximum positive value, tracing
the beam from the left to the right
(−) volts
Figure 12-166. Saw-tooth applied voltage.
Vertical
deflection plates (v)
Horizontal
deflection plates (h)Screen
Beam on center
(0) volts (−) volts
Electrons repelled down
(−) volts
Electrons repelled to left
(0) volts
(0) volts(0) volts
(0) volts
(+) volts
Electrons attracted up
(+) volts
Electrons attracted to right
(0) volts
Figure 12-165. Possible plate voltage combinations and the resultant beam position.
component/conductor and ground. It usually creates 
high current flow, which burns out or causes damage 
to the circuit conductor or components.
• Open circuit—a circuit that is not a complete or 
continuous path. An open circuit represents an 
infinitely large resistance. Switches are common 
devices used to open and close a circuit. Sometimes 
a circuit opens due to a component failure, such as a 
light bulb or a burned out resistor.
• Continuity—the state of being continuous, 
uninterrupted or connected together; the opposite of 
a circuit that is not broken or does not have an open.
• Discontinuity—the opposite of continuity, indicating 
that a circuit is broken or not continuous.
Voltage Measurement
V oltage is measured across a component with a voltmeter or 
the voltmeter position on a multimeter. Usually, there is a DC 
and an AC selection on the meter. Before the meter is used 
for measurements, make sure that the meter is selected for 
the correct type of voltage. When placing the probes across a 
component to take a measurement, take care to ensure that the 
polarity is correct. [Figure 12-170] Standard practice is for 
the red meter lead to be installed in the positive (+) jack and 
the black meter lead to be installed in the negative meter jack 
(−). Then when placing the probes across or in parallel with 
a component to measure the voltage, the leads should match 
the polarity of the component. The red lead is on the positive

===== PDF-side 521 =====

12-80
Applied
Applied
(0) volts
(+) volts
Horizontal deflection plates (h)
(−) volts
Vertical deflection plates (v)
(0) volts
(–) volts
(+) volts
(0) volts
Input signal
Figure 12-167. Sine wave voltage signal.
side of the component and the black is on the negative side, 
which prevents damage to the meter or incorrect readings.
All meters have some resistance and will shunt some of the 
current. This has the effect of changing the characteristic of 
the circuit because of this change in current. This is typically 
more of a concern with older analog type meters. If there 
are any questions about the magnitude of the voltage across 
a component, then the meter should be set to measure on 
the highest voltage range. This prevents the meter from 
“pegging” and possible damage. The range should then be 
selected to low values until the measured voltage is read at 
the mid-scale deflection. Readings taken at mid-scale are 
the most accurate.
Current Measurement
Current is measured with the ammeter connected in the 
current path by opening or breaking the circuit and inserting 
the meter in series. [Figure 12-170] Standard practice is for 
the red meter lead to be installed in the positive (+) jack and 
the black meter lead to be installed in the negative meter jack 
(−). The positive side of the meter is connected towards the 
positive voltage source. Ideally, the meter should not alter 
the current and influence the circuit and the measurements. 
However, the meter does have some effect because of its 
internal resistance that is connected with the rest of the circuit 
in series. The resistance is rather small and for most practical 
purposes, this can be neglected.
Checking Resistance in a Circuit
The ohmmeter is used to measure the resistance. In its more 
basic form, the ohmmeter consists of a variable resistor in 
series with a meter movement and a voltage source. The 
meter must first be adjusted before use.
Refer to Figure 12-171  for meter configurations during 
adjustments. When the meter leads are not connected (open), 
the needle points to the full left-hand position, indicating 
infinite resistance or and open circuit. With the lead placed 
together, the circuit is shorted as shown with the meter 
needle to the full right-hand position. When a connection 
is made, the internal battery is allowed to produce a current 
through the movement coil, causing a deflection of the

===== PDF-side 522 =====

12-81
Figure 12-168. Oscilloscope with flat panel display.
Figure 12-169. Handheld oscilloscope.
needle in proportion to the value of the external resistance. 
In this case, the resistance is zero because the leads are 
shorted.
The purpose of the variable resistor in the meter is to adjust 
the current so that the pointer reads exactly zero when the 
leads are shorted. This is needed because as the battery 
continues to be used, the voltage changes, thus requiring an 
adjustment. The meter should be “zeroed” before each use.
To check the value of a resistor, the resistor must be 
disconnected from the circuit. This prevents any possible 
damage to the ohmmeter, and it prevents the possibility of 
any inaccurate readings due to the circuit being in parallel 
with the resistor in question. [Figure 12-172]
Continuity Checks
In many cases, the ohmmeter is not used for measuring the 
resistance of a component but to simply check the integrity 
of a connection from one portion of a circuit to another. If 
there is a good connection, then the ohmmeter reads a near 
zero resistance or a short. If the circuit is open or has a very 
poor connection at some point like an over-crimped pin in 
a connector, then the ohmmeter reads infinity or some very 
high resistance. Keep in mind that while any measurement 
is being taken, contact with the circuit or probes should be 
avoided. Contact can introduce another parallel path and 
provide misleading indications.
Capacitance Measurement
Figure 12-173 illustrates a basic test of a capacitor with an 
ohmmeter. There are usually two common modes of failure 
for a capacitor. One is a complete failure characterized 
by short circuit through the capacitor due to the dielectric 
breaking down or an open circuit. The more insidious failure 
occurs due to degradation, which is a gradual deterioration 
of the capacitor’s characteristics.
If a problem is suspected, remove the capacitor from the circuit 
and check with an ohmmeter. The first step is to short the two 
leads of the capacitor to ensure that it is entirely discharged. 
Next, connect the two leads as shown in Figure 12-173 across 
the capacitor and observe the needle movement. At first, the 
needle should indicate a short circuit. Then as the capacitor 
begins to charge, the needle should move to the left or infinity 
and eventually indicate an open circuit. The capacitor takes 
its charge from the internal battery of the ohmmeter. The 
greater the capacitance, the longer it takes to charge. If the 
capacitor is shorted, then the needle remains at a very low or 
shorted resistance. If there is some internal deterioration of the 
dielectric, then the needle never reaches a high resistance but 
some intermediate value, indicating a current.
Inductance Measurement
The common mode of failure in an inductor is an open. To 
check the integrity of an inductor, it must be removed from 
the circuit and tested as an isolated component just like the 
capacitor. If there is an open in the inductor, a simple check 
with an ohmmeter shows it as an open circuit with infinite 
resistance. If in fact the inductor is in good condition, then 
the ohmmeter indicates the resistance of the coil.
On occasions, the inductor fails due to overheating. When 
the inductor is overheated, it is possible for the insulation 
covering the wire in the coil to melt, causing a short. The 
effects of a shorted coil are that of reducing the number of 
turns. At this point, further testing of the inductor must be

===== PDF-side 523 =====

12-82
Ammeter symbol Voltmeter symbol
Meter symbols
Simplified use of meters
Ohmmeter symbol
R1
+
+
−
−
3k Ω
Open the circuit
and insert ammeter in
series with the load
A
R1
+ +
− −3k Ω
Voltage is measured
across a component V
R1
+ +
− −3k Ω
Resistance is
measured across a
component
Ω
A V Ω
Figure 12-170. Current, voltage, and resistance measurement.
done with test equipment not covered in this handbook.
Troubleshooting Open Faults in a Series Circuit 
One of the most common modes of failure is the “open” 
circuit. A component, such as a resistor, can overheat due 
to the power rating being exceeded. Other more frustrating 
problems can happen when a “cold” solder joint cracks 
leaving a wire disconnected from a relay or connector. 
This type of damage can occur during routine maintenance 
after a technician has accessed an area for inspections. 
In many cases, there is no visual indication that a failure 
has occurred, and the soon-to-be-frustrated technician is 
unaware that there is a problem until power is reapplied to 
the aircraft in the final days leading up to aircraft delivery 
and scheduled operations.
The first example is a simplified diagram shown in 
Figures 12-174  through 12-176. The circuit depicted in 
Figure 12-174 is designed to cause current to flow through a 
lamp, but because of the open resistor, the lamp will not light. 
To locate this open, a voltmeter or an ohmmeter should be used.
Tracing Opens with the Voltmeter
A general procedure to follow in this case is to measure the 
voltage drop across each component in the circuit, keeping 
in mind the following points. If there is an open in a series 
circuit, then the voltage drops on sides of the component. 
In this case, the total voltage must appear across the open 
resistor as per Kirchhoff’s V oltage Law.
If a voltmeter is connected across the lamp, as shown in 
Figure 12-175, the voltmeter reads zero. Since no current can 
flow in the circuit because of the open resistor, there is no 
voltage drop across the lamp indicating that the lamp is good.
Next, the voltmeter is connected across the open resistor, as 
shown in Figure 12-176. The voltmeter has closed the circuit 
by shunting (paralleling) the burned out resistor, allowing 
current to flow. Current flows from the negative terminal of 
the battery, through the switch, through the voltmeter and the 
lamp, back to the positive terminal of the battery. However, 
the resistance of the voltmeter is so high that only a very 
small current flows in the circuit. The current is too small to 
light the lamp, but the voltmeter reads the battery voltage.
Tracing Opens with the Ohmmeter
A simplified circuit, as shown in Figures 12-177 and 12-178, 
illustrates how to locate an open in a series circuit using the 
ohmmeter. A general rule to keep in mind when troubleshooting 
with an ohmmeter is: when an ohmmeter is properly connected 
across a circuit component and a resistance reading is obtained, 
the component has continuity and is not open.
When an ohmmeter is used, the circuit component to be tested 
must be isolated and the power source removed from the 
circuit. In this case, these requirements can be met by opening 
the circuit switch as shown in Figure 12-177. The ohmmeter 
is zeroed and across all good components is zero. The voltage 
drop across the open component equals the total voltage across 
the series combination. This condition happens because the 
open component prevents current to pass through the series 
circuit. With there being no current, there can be no voltage 
drop across any of the good components. Because the current is 
zero, it can be determined by Ohm’s Law that E = IR = 0 volts 
across a component. The voltage is the same on both places 
across (in parallel with) the lamp. In this testing configuration, 
some value of resistance is read indicating that the lamp is in 
good condition and is not the source of the open in the circuit.
Now the technician should move to the resistor and place 
the ohmmeter probe across it as shown in Figure 12-178. 
When the ohmmeter is connected across the open resistor, 
it indicates infinite resistance, or a discontinuity. Thus, the 
circuit open has now been located.

===== PDF-side 524 =====

12-83
+
−
Black lead
Open circuit
Red lead
0
Simplified ohmmeter
∞
+
−
Black lead
Shorted circuit
Red lead
0
Simplified ohmmeter
∞
+
−
Black lead
R1
Red lead
Isolate from circuit
connect across resistor
0
Simplified ohmmeter
∞
R2
R3
+
−
Figure 12-171. Meter configurations during adjustments.
Figure 12-172. Meter adjustment.
Troubleshooting Shorting Faults in a Series Circuit
An open fault can cause a component or system not to 
work, which can be critical and hazardous. A shorting 
fault can potentially be more of a severe nature than the 
open type of fault. A short circuit, or “short,” causes the 
opposite effect. A short across a series circuit produces a 
greater than normal current flow. Faults of this type can 
develop slowly when a wire bundle is not properly secured 
and is allowed to chafe against the airframe structure or 
other systems, such as hydraulic lines. Shorts can also 
occur due to a careless technician using incorrect hardware 
when installing an interior. If screws that are too long are 
used to install trim, it is possible to penetrate a wire bundle 
immediately causing numerous shorts. Worse yet, are the 
shorts that are not immediately seen but “latent” and do not 
show symptoms until the aircraft is in service. Another point 
to keep in mind is when closing panels. Wires can become 
pinched between the panel and the airframe causing either 
a short or a latent, intermittent short. The simplified circuit, 
shown in Figures 12-179 through 12-182 is used to illustrate 
troubleshooting a short in a series circuit.
In Figure 12-179, a circuit is designed to light a lamp. A 
resistor is connected in the circuit to limit current flow. If the 
resistor is shorted, as shown in the illustration, the current 
flow increases and the lamp becomes brighter. If the applied 
voltage were high enough, the lamp would burn out, but in 
this case the fuse would protect the lamp by opening first.
Usually a short circuit produces an open circuit by either 
blowing (opening) the fuse or burning out a circuit 
component. But in some circuits, there may be additional 
resistors which do not allow one shorted resistor to increase 
the current flow enough to blow the fuse or burn out a 
component. [Figure 12-180] Thus, with one resistor shorted 
out, the circuit still functions since the power dissipated by 
the other resistors does not exceed the rating of the fuse.
Tracing Shorts with the Ohmmeter
The shorted resistor can be located with an ohmmeter. 
[Figure 12-181] First the switch is opened to isolate the

===== PDF-side 525 =====

12-84
Break
Break
V
Figure 12-174. An open circuit.
Figure 12-175. Voltmeter across a lamp in an open circuit.
+
−
Black lead
Needle moves
full-scale (short)
Conventional current
Initial charging of capacitor behaves like a shorted circuit.
Red lead
0
Simplified ohmmeter
∞
+
−
+−
Black lead
Needle moves
full-scale (open)
Full charge no current
Once charged, the capacitor behaves like an open circuit.
Red lead
0
Simplified ohmmeter
∞
Figure 12-173. Basic test of a capacitor with an ohmmeter.
circuit components. In Figure 12-181, this circuit is shown 
with an ohmmeter connected across each of the resistors. 
Only the ohmmeter connected across the shorted resistor 
shows a zero reading, indicating that this resistor is shorted.
Tracing Shorts with the Voltmeter
To locate the shorted resistor while the circuit is functioning, 
a voltmeter can be used. Figure 12-182 illustrates that when 
a voltmeter is connected across any of the resistors that are 
not shorted, a portion of the applied voltage is indicated on 
the voltmeter scale. When it is connected across the shorted 
resistor, the voltmeter reads zero.
Troubleshooting Open Faults in a Parallel Circuit
The procedures used in troubleshooting a parallel circuit are 
sometimes different from those used in a series circuit. Unlike a 
series circuit, a parallel circuit has more than one path in which 
current flows. A voltmeter cannot be used, since, when it is placed 
across an open resistor, it reads the voltage drop in a parallel 
branch. But an ammeter or the modified use of an ohmmeter 
can be employed to detect an open branch in a parallel circuit.
If the open resistor shown in Figure 12-183 was not visually 
apparent, the circuit might appear to be functioning properly, 
because current would continue to flow in the other two 
branches of the circuit. To determine that the circuit is not 
operating properly, a determination must be made as to how the 
circuit should behave when working properly. First, the total 
resistance, total current, and the branch currents of the circuit 
should be calculated as if there were no open in the circuit. 
In this case, the total resistance can be simply determined by:
  RT = R
N
 Where  RT is the total circuit resistance
  N is the number of resistors
  R is the resistor value

===== PDF-side 526 =====

12-85
Break V
Break
Ω
Break Ω
Figure 12-176. Voltmeter across a resistor in an open circuit.
Figure 12-177. Using an ohmmeter to check a circuit component.
Figure 12-178. Using an ohmmeter to locate an open in a circuit 
component.
  RT =     = 10 Ω30 Ω
3
The total current of the circuit can now be determined
by using Ohm’s Law: 
  IT = ES
RT
 Where  IT is the total current
  ES is the source voltage across the
  parallel branch
  RT is the total resistance of the
  parallel branch
 
  IT =     = 3 amperes (total current)30 v
10 Ω
Each branch current should be determined in a similar
manner. For the first branch, the current is: 
  I1 = ES
R1
 Where  I1 is the current in the first branch
  ES is the source voltage across the
  parallel branch
  R1 is the resistance of the first branch
 
  I1 =     = 1 ampere30 v
30 Ω
Because the other two branches are of the same resistive 
value, then the current in each of those branches is 1 ampere 
also. Adding up the amperes in each branch confirms the 
initial calculation of total current being 3 amperes.
Tracing an Open with an Ammeter
If the technician now places an ammeter in the circuit, the 
total current would be indicated as 2 amperes as shown in 
Figure 12-183 instead of the calculated 3 amperes. Since 1 
ampere of current should be flowing through each branch, 
it is obvious that one branch is open. If the ammeter is then 
connected into the branches, one after another, the open 
branch is eventually located by a zero ammeter reading.
Tracing an Open with an Ohmmeter
A modified use of the ohmmeter can also locate this type 
of open. If the ohmmeter is connected across the open 
resistor, as shown in Figure 12-184, an erroneous reading 
of continuity would be obtained. Even though the circuit 
switch is open, the open resistor is still in parallel with R 1 
and R2, and the ohmmeter would indicate the open resistor 
had a resistance of 15 ohms, the equivalent resistance of 
the parallel combination of R 1 and R2.
Therefore, it is necessary to open the circuit as shown in 
Figure 12-185 in order to check the resistance of R3. In this 
way, the resistor is not shunted (paralleled) by R1 and R2. The 
reading on the ohmmeter now indicates infinite resistance, 
which means the open component has been isolated.
Troubleshooting Shorting Faults in Parallel Circuits
As in a series circuit, a short in a parallel circuit usually 
causes an open circuit by blowing the fuse. But, unlike a 
series circuit, one shorted component in a parallel circuit 
stops current flow by causing the fuse to open. Refer to the 
circuit in Figure 12-186. If resistor R3 is shorted, a path of 
almost zero resistance is offered the current, and all the circuit 
current flows through the branch containing the shorted 
resistor. Since this is practically the same as connecting a 
wire between the terminals of the battery, the current rises to 
an excessive value, and the fuse opens. Since the fuse opens 
almost as soon as a resistor shorts out, there is no time to

===== PDF-side 527 =====

12-86
V
V
Some voltage
Short
Zero
voltage
Figure 12-182. Voltmeter connected across resistors.
Ω
Ω
Ω Ω
40 Ω
50 Ω
R1
R3
R2
R4
10 Ω
100 V
0 Ω
Figure 12-179. A shorted resistor.
Figure 12-180. A short that does not open the circuit.
Figure 12-181. Using an ohmmeter to locate a shorted resistor.
perform a current or voltage check. Thus, troubleshooting 
a parallel DC circuit for a shorted component should be 
accomplished with an ohmmeter. But, as in the case of 
checking for an open resistor in a parallel circuit, a shorted 
resistor can be detected with an ohmmeter only if one end 
of the shorted resistor is disconnected and isolated from the 
rest of the circuit.
Troubleshooting Shorting Faults in Series-Parallel 
Circuits
Logic in Tracing an Open
Troubleshooting a series-parallel resistive circuit involves 
locating malfunctions similar to those found in a series or 
a parallel circuit. Figures 12-187 through 12-189 illustrate 
three points of failure in a series-parallel circuit and their 
generalized effects.
1. In the circuit shown in Figure 12-187, an open has 
occurred in the series portion of the circuit. When 
the open occurs anywhere in the series portion of a 
series-parallel circuit, current flow in the entire circuit 
stops. In this case, the circuit does not function, and 
the lamp, L1, is not lit.
2. If the open occurs in the parallel portion of a series-
parallel circuit, as shown in Figure 12-188, part of the 
circuit continues to function. In this case, the lamp 
continues to burn, but its brightness diminishes, since 
the total resistance of the circuit has increased and the 
total current has decreased.
3. If the open occurs in the branch containing the lamp, 
as shown in Figure 12-189, the circuit continues to 
function with increased resistance and decreased 
current, but the lamp does not light.
Tracing Opens with the Voltmeter
To explain how the voltmeter and ohmmeter can be used 
to troubleshoot series-parallel circuits, the circuit shown in 
Figure 12-190 has been labeled at various points. A point-
to-point description is listed below with expected results:
1. By connecting a voltmeter between points A and D, 
the battery and switch can be checked for opens.
2. By connecting the voltmeter between points A and 
B, the voltage drop across R 1 can be checked. This 
voltage drop is a portion of the applied voltage.
3. If R1 is open, the reading between B and D is zero.
4. By connecting a voltmeter between A and E, the 
continuity of the conductor between the positive 
terminal of the battery and point E, as well as the fuse,

===== PDF-side 528 =====

12-87
30 Ω 30 Ω
R130 V R2
30 Ω
R3
A
2a
Break
30 Ω 30 Ω
R1 R2
30 Ω
R3
Break
Figure 12-183. Finding an open branch in a parallel circuit.
Figure 12-184. A misleading ohmmeter indication.
can be checked. If the conductor or fuse is open, the 
voltmeter reads zero.
5. If the lamp is burning, it is obvious that no open 
exists in the branch containing the lamp, and the 
voltmeter could be used to detect an open in the branch 
containing R2 by removing lamp, L1, from the circuit.
Troubleshooting the series portion of a series-parallel circuit 
presents no difficulties, but in the parallel portion of the 
circuit, misleading readings can be obtained.
Batteries
Primary Cell
The dry cell is the most common type of primary-cell battery 
and is similar in its characteristics to that of an electrolytic 
cell. This type of a battery is basically designed with a metal 
electrode or graphite rod acting as the cathode (+) terminal, 
immersed in an electrolytic paste. This electrode⁄electrolytic 
build-up is then encased in a metal container, usually made 
of zinc, which itself acts as the anode (−) terminal. When the 
battery is in a discharge condition an electrochemical reaction 
takes place resulting in one of the metals being consumed. 
Because of this consumption, the charging process is not 
reversible. Attempting to reverse the chemical reaction in a 
primary cell by way of recharging is usually dangerous and 
can lead to a battery explosion.
These batteries are commonly used to power items such as 
flashlights. The most common primary cells today are found 
in alkaline batteries, silver-oxide, and lithium batteries. The 
earlier carbon-zinc cells, with a carbon post as cathode and a 
zinc shell as anode were once prevalent but are not as common.
Secondary Cell
A secondary cell is any kind of electrolytic cell in which the 
electrochemical reaction that releases energy is reversible. 
The lead-acid car battery is a secondary-cell battery. The 
electrolyte is sulfuric acid (battery acid), the positive 
electrode is lead peroxide, and the negative electrode is 
lead. A typical lead-acid battery consists of six lead-acid 
cells in a case. Each cell produces 2 volts, so the whole 
battery produces a total of 12 volts.
Other commonly used secondary cell chemistry types are 
nickel-cadmium (Ni-Cad), nickel-metal hydride (NiMH), 
lithium-ion (Li-ion), and Lithium-ion polymer (Li-ion 
polymer).
Lead-acid batteries used in aircraft are similar to automobile 
batteries. The lead acid battery is made up of a series of 
identical cells each containing sets of positive and negative 
plates. Figure 12-191 illustrates each cell contains positive 
plates of lead dioxide (PbO2), negative plates of spongy lead, 
and electrolyte (sulfuric acid and water). A practical cell is 
constructed with many more plates than just two in order to get 
the required current output. All positive plates are connected 
together as well as all the negatives. Because each positive 
plate is always positioned between two negative plates, there 
are always one or more negative plates than positive plates.
Between the plates are porous separators that keep the 
positive and negative plates from touching each other and 
shorting out the cell. The separators have vertical ribs on 
the side facing the positive plate. This construction permits 
the electrolyte to circulate freely around the plates. In 
addition, it provides a path for sediment to settle to the 
bottom of the cell.
Each cell is seated in a hard rubber casing through the top 
of which are terminal posts and a hole into which a nonspill 
vent cap is screwed. The hole provides access for testing the 
strength of the electrolyte and adding water. The vent plug 
permits gases to escape from the cell with a minimum of 
leakage of electrolyte, regardless of the position the airplane 
might assume. [Figure 12-192] In level flight, the lead weight

===== PDF-side 529 =====

12-88
R2 L1
Break
R2
R1
L1
Break
R2
R1
L1
Break
Figure 12-187. An open in the series portion of a series-parallel 
circuit.
Figure 12-188. An open in the parallel portion of a series-parallel 
circuit.
Figure 12-189. An open lamp in a series-parallel circuit.
R1
A
B
R2
R3
Break
Open
30 Ω 30 Ω
R130 V R2
30 Ω
R3
Figure 12-185.  Opening a branch circuit to obtain an accurate 
ohmmeter reading.
Figure 12-186. A shorted component causes the fuse to open.
permits venting of gases through a small hole. In inverted 
flight, this hole is covered by the lead weight.
The individual cells of the battery are connected in series by 
means of cell straps. [Figure 12-193] The complete assembly 
is enclosed in an acid resisting metal container (battery box), 
which serves as electrical shielding and mechanical protection. 
The battery box has a removable top. It also has a vent tube 
nipple at each end. When the battery is installed in an airplane, a 
vent tube is attached to each nipple. One tube is the intake tube 
and is exposed to the slipstream. The other is the exhaust vent 
tube and is attached to the battery drain sump, which is a glass 
jar containing a felt pad moistened with a concentrated solution 
of sodium bicarbonate (baking soda). With this arrangement, 
the airstream is directed through the battery case where battery 
gases are picked up, neutralized in the sump, and then expelled 
overboard without damage to the airplane.
To facilitate installation and removal of the battery in some 
aircraft, a quick disconnect assembly is used to connect the 
power leads to the battery. This assembly attaches the battery 
leads in the aircraft to a receptacle mounted on the side of the 
battery. [Figure 12-194] The receptacle covers the battery 
terminal posts and prevents accidental shorting during the 
installation and removal of the battery. The plug consists of 
a socket and a handwheel with a course pitch thread. It can 
be readily connected to the receptacle by the handwheel. 
Another advantage of this assembly is that the plug can be 
installed in only one position, eliminating the possibility of 
reversing the battery leads.
The voltage of lead acid cell is approximately two volts in order 
to attain the voltage required for the application. Each cell is 
then connected in series with heavy gauge metal straps to form 
a battery. In a typical battery, such as that used in an aircraft for 
starting, the voltage required is 12 or 24 volts. This voltage is 
achieved by connecting six cells or twelve cells respectively 
together in series and enclosing them in one plastic box.

===== PDF-side 530 =====

12-89
R2
R1
L1
A B C
D E F
Figure 12-190. Using the voltmeter to troubleshoot a series-parallel 
circuit.
Vent cap
Terminal post
Supporting ribs
Cell container
Plates
Cell cover
Separators
Figure 12-191. Lead-acid cell construction.
Each cell containing the plates are filled with an electrolyte 
composed of sulfuric acid and distilled water with a specific 
gravity of 1.270 at 60 °F. This solution contains positive 
hydrogen ions and negative sulfate (SO4) ions that are free to 
combine with other ions and form a new chemical compound. 
When the cell is discharged, electrons leave the negative 
plate and flow to the positive plates where they cause the 
lead dioxide (PbO 2) to break down into negative oxygen 
ions and positive lead ions. The negative oxygen ions join 
with positive hydrogen ions from the sulfuric acid and form 
water (H2O). The negative sulfate ions join with the lead 
ions in both plates and form lead sulfate (PbSO4). After the 
discharge, the specific gravity changes to about 1.150.
Battery Ratings
The voltage of a battery is determined by the number of 
cells connected in series to form the battery. Although the 
voltage of one lead-acid cell just removed from a charger is 
approximately 2.2 volts, a lead-acid cell is normally rated at 
approximately 2 volts. A battery rated at 12 volts consists of 
6 lead-acid cells connected in series, and a battery rated at 
24 volts is composed of 12 cells.
The most common battery rating is the ampere-hour rating. 
This is a unit of measurement for battery capacity. It is 
determined by multiplying a current flow in amperes by the 
time in hours that the battery is being discharged.
A battery with a capacity of 1 ampere-hour should be able 
to continuously supply a current of 1 amp to a load for 
exactly 1 hour, or 2 amps for 1⁄2 hour, or 1⁄3 amp for 3 hours, 
etc., before becoming completely discharged. Actually, the 
ampere-hour output of a particular battery depends on the 
rate at which it is discharged. Heavy discharge current heats 
the battery and decreases its efficiency and total ampere-hour 
output. For airplane batteries, a period of 5 hours has been 
established as the discharge time in rating battery capacity. 
However, this time of 5 hours is only a basis for rating and 
does not necessarily mean the length of time during which 
the battery is expected to furnish current. Under actual service 
conditions, the battery can be completely discharged within 
a few minutes, or it may never be discharged if the generator 
provides sufficient charge.
The ampere-hour capacity of a battery depends upon its total 
effective plate area. Connecting batteries in parallel increases 
ampere-hour capacity. Connecting batteries in series increases 
the total voltage but not the ampere-hour capacity.
Life Cycle of a Battery
Battery life cycle is defined as the number of complete charge/
discharge cycles a battery can perform before its normal charge 
capacity falls below 80 percent of its initial rated capacity. 
Battery life can vary anywhere from 500 to 1,300 cycles. 
Various factors can cause deterioration of a battery and shorten 
its service life. The first is over-discharging, which causes 
excess sulfation; second, too-rapid charging or discharging 
that results in overheating of the plates and shedding of active 
material. The accumulation of shed material, in turn, causes 
shorting of the plates and results in internal discharge. A battery 
that remains in a low or discharged condition for a long period 
of time may be permanently damaged. The deterioration can 
continue to a point where cell capacity can drop to 80 percent 
after 1,000 cycles. In many cases, the cell can continue working 
to nearly 2,000 cycles but with a diminished capacity of 60 
percent of its original state.

===== PDF-side 531 =====

12-90
Vent plug
Cell strap
Cells
Figure 12-193. Connection of storage battery.
Figure 12-194. A battery quick-disconnect assembly.
Inverted position
electrolyte
Vent
Vent
Upright position gases escape
Lead weight seated not sealed Lead weight seated
Figure 12-192. Nonspill battery vent plug.
Lead-Acid Battery Testing Methods
The state of charge of a storage battery depends upon 
the condition of its active materials, primarily the plates. 
However, the state of charge of a battery is indicated by the 
density of the electrolyte and is checked by a hydrometer, 
an instrument that measures the specific gravity (weight as 
compared with water) of liquids.
The most commonly used hydrometer consists of a small 
sealed glass tube weighted at its lower end so it floats upright. 
[Figure 12-195] Within the narrow stem of the tube is a paper 
scale with a range of 1.100 to 1.300. When a hydrometer 
is used, a quantity of electrolyte sufficient to float the 
hydrometer is drawn up into the syringe. The depth to which 
the hydrometer sinks into the electrolyte is determined by the 
density of the electrolyte, and the scale value indicated at the 
level of the electrolyte is its specific gravity. The more dense 
the electrolyte, the higher the hydrometer floats; therefore, 
the highest number on the scale (1.300) is at the lower end 
of the hydrometer scale.
In a new, fully-charged aircraft storage battery, the electrolyte 
is approximately 30 percent acid and 70 percent water (by 
volume) and is 1.300 times as heavy as pure water. During 
discharge, the solution (electrolyte) becomes less dense and 
its specific gravity drops below 1.300. A specific gravity 
reading between 1.300 and 1.275 indicates a high state of 
charge; between 1.275 and 1.240, a medium state of charge; 
and between 1.240 and 1.200, a low state of charge. Aircraft 
batteries are generally of small capacity but are subject to 
heavy loads. The values specified for state of charge are 
therefore rather high. Hydrometer tests are made periodically 
on all storage batteries installed in aircraft. An aircraft battery 
in a low state of charge may have perhaps 50 percent charge 
remaining, but is nevertheless considered low in the face of 
heavy demands that would soon exhaust it. A battery in such a 
state of charge is considered in need of immediate recharging.
When a battery is tested using a hydrometer, the temperature 
of the electrolyte must be taken into consideration. The 
specific gravity readings on the hydrometer vary from 
the actual specific gravity as the temperature changes. No 
correction is necessary when the temperature is between 
70 °F and 90 °F, since the variation is not great enough to 
consider. When temperatures are greater than 90 °F or less 
than 70 °F, it is necessary to apply a correction factor. Some 
hydrometers are equipped with a correction scale inside the 
tube. With other hydrometers, it is necessary to refer to a chart 
provided by the manufacturer. In both cases, the corrections 
should be added to, or subtracted from the reading shown 
on the hydrometer.
The specific gravity of a cell is reliable only if nothing has

===== PDF-side 532 =====

12-91
1100
1150
1200
1250
1300
1100
1150
1200
1250
1300
1100
1150
1200
1250
1300
1100
1150
1200
1250
1300
Low charge Medium charge High charge
Figure 12-195. Hydrometer (specific gravity readings).
been added to the electrolyte except occasional small amounts 
of distilled water to replace that lost as a result of normal 
evaporation. Always take hydrometer readings before adding 
distilled water, never after. This is necessary to allow time 
for the water to mix thoroughly with the electrolyte and to 
avoid drawing up into the hydrometer syringe a sample that 
does not represent the true strength of the solution.
Exercise extreme care when making the hydrometer test of 
a lead-acid cell. Handle the electrolyte carefully because 
sulfuric acid burns clothing and skin. If the acid does contact 
the skin, wash the area thoroughly with water and then apply 
bicarbonate of soda.
Lead-Acid Battery Charging Methods
Passing direct current through the battery in a direction 
opposite to that of the discharge current may charge a 
storage battery. Because of the internal resistance (IR) in the 
battery, the voltage of the external charging source must be 
greater than the open circuit voltage. For example, the open 
circuit voltage of a fully charged 12 cell, lead-acid battery is 
approximately 26.4 volts (12 × 2.2 volts), but approximately 
28 volts are required to charge it. This larger voltage is needed 
for charging because of the voltage drop in the battery caused 
by the internal resistance. Hence, the charging voltage of a 
lead-acid battery must equal the open circuit voltage plus the 
IR drop within the battery (product of the charging current 
and the internal resistance).
Batteries are charged by either the constant voltage or 
constant current method. In the constant voltage method 
[Figure 12-196A], a motor generator set with a constant, 
regulated voltage forces the current through the battery. In 
this method, the current at the start of the process is high but 
automatically tapers off, reaching a value of approximately 
1 ampere when the battery is fully charged. The constant 
voltage method requires less time and supervision than does 
the constant current method.
In the constant current method [Figure 12-196B], the current 
remains almost constant during the entire charging process. 
This method requires a longer time to charge a battery fully 
and, toward the end of the process, presents the danger of 
overcharging, if care is not exercised.
In the aircraft, the storage battery is charged by direct current 
from the aircraft generator system. This method of charging 
is the constant voltage method, since the generator voltage 
is held constant by use of a voltage regulator.
When a storage battery is being charged, it generates a 
certain amount of hydrogen and oxygen. Since this is an 
explosive mixture, it is important to take steps to prevent 
ignition of the gas mixture. Loosen the vent caps and 
leave in place. Do not permit open flames, sparks, or other 
sources of ignition in the vicinity. Before disconnecting 
or connecting a battery to the charge, always turn off the 
power by means of a remote switch. Figure 12-197 shows 
battery charging equipment.
Nickel-Cadmium Batteries
Chemistry and Construction
Active materials in nickel-cadmium cells (Ni-Cad) are nickel 
hydroxide (NiOOH) in the charged positive plate (Anode) 
and sponge cadmium (Cd) in the charged negative plate 
(Cathode). The electrolyte is a potassium hydroxide (KOH) 
solution in concentration of 20–34 percent by weight pure 
KOH in distilled water.
Sintered nickel-cadmium cells have relatively thin sintered 
nickel matrices forming a plate grid structure. The grid 
structure is highly porous and is impregnated with the active 
positive material (nickel-hydroxide) and the negative material 
(cadmium-hydroxide). The plates are then formed by sintering 
nickel powder to fine-mesh wire screen. In other variations 
of the process, the active material in the sintered matrix is 
converted chemically, or thermally, to an active state and 
then formed. In general, there are many steps to these cycles 
of impregnation and formation. Thin sintered plate cells are 
ideally suited for very high rate charge and discharge service. 
Pocket plate nickel-cadmium cells have the positive or negative 
active material, pressed into pockets of perforated nickel-plated 
steel plates or into tubes. The active material is trapped securely 
in contact with a metal current collector so active material 
shedding is largely eliminated. Plate designs vary in thickness

===== PDF-side 533 =====

12-92
A
B
+
+
Constant current
charging circuit
Constant voltage
charging circuit
Rheostat
A
OFF
ON
V
R
Motor
generator
Figure 12-196. Battery charging methods.
depending upon cycling service requirements. The typical open 
circuit cell voltage of a nickel-cadmium battery is about 1.25 
volts. Figure 12-198 shows a nickel-cadmium aircraft battery.
Operation of Nickel-Cadmium Cells
When a charging current is applied to a nickel-cadmium 
battery, the negative plates lose oxygen and begin forming 
metallic cadmium. The active material of the positive plates, 
nickel-hydroxide, becomes more highly oxidized. This 
process continues while the charging current is applied or 
until all the oxygen is removed from the negative plates and 
only cadmium remains.
Toward the end of the charging cycle, the cells emit gas. This 
also occurs if the cells are overcharged. This gas is caused by 
decomposition of the water in the electrolyte into hydrogen 
at the negative plates and oxygen at the positive plates. The 
voltage used during charging, as well as the temperature, 
determines when gassing occurs. To completely charge a 
nickel-cadmium battery, some gassing, however slight, must 
take place; thus, some water is used.
The chemical action is reversed during discharge. The 
positive plates slowly give up oxygen, which is regained by 
the negative plates. This process results in the conversion of 
the chemical energy into electrical energy. During discharge, 
the plates absorb a quantity of the electrolyte. On recharge, 
the level of the electrolyte rises and, at full charge, the 
electrolyte is at its highest level. Therefore, water should be 
added only when the battery is fully charged.
The nickel-cadmium battery is usually interchangeable with 
the lead-acid type. When replacing a lead-acid battery with 
a nickel-cadmium battery, the battery compartment must be 
clean, dry, and free of all traces of acid from the old battery. 
The compartment must be washed out and neutralized with 
ammonia or boric acid solution, allowed to dry thoroughly, 
and then painted with an alkali resisting varnish.
The pad in the battery sump jar should be saturated with a 
three percent (by weight) solution of boric acid and water 
before connecting the battery vent system.
General Maintenance and Safety Precautions
Refer to the battery manufacturer for detailed service 
instructions. Below are general recommendations for 
maintenance and safety precautions. For vented nickel-
cadmium cells, the general maintenance requirements are:
1. Hydrate cells to supply water lost during overcharging.
2. Maintain inter-cell connectors at proper torque values.
3. Keep cell tops and exposed sides clean and dry.
Electrolyte spillage can form grounding paths. White moss 
around vent cap seals is potassium carbonate (K 2CO3). 
Clean up these surfaces with distilled water and dry. While 
handling the caustic potassium hydroxide electrolyte, wear 
safety goggles to protect the eyes. The technician should also 
wear plastic gloves and an apron to protect skin and clothes. 
In case of spillage on hands or clothes, neutralize the alkali 
immediately with vinegar or dilute boric acid solution (one 
pound per gallon of water); then rinse with clear water.
During overcharging conditions, explosive mixtures of 
hydrogen and oxygen develop in nickel-cadmium cells. 
When this occurs, the cell relief valves vent these gases 
to the atmosphere, creating a potentially explosive hazard. 
Additionally, room ventilation should be such as to prevent 
a hydrogen build up in closed spaces from exceeding one 
percent by volume. Explosions can occur at concentrations 
above four percent by volume in air.
Sealed Lead Acid (SLA) Batteries
In many applications, sealed lead acid (SLA) batteries 
are gaining in use over flooded lead acid and Ni-Cad 
batteries. One leading characteristic of Ni-Cad batteries is 
that they perform well in low voltage, full-discharge, high 
cycle applications. However, they do not perform as well

===== PDF-side 534 =====

12-93
Figure 12-197. Battery charger. Figure 12-198. Nickel-Cadmium aircraft battery.
in extended standby applications, such as auxiliary or as 
emergency battery packs used to power inertial reference 
units or stand-by equipment (attitude gyro).
It is typical during the servicing of a Ni-Cad battery to 
match as many as twenty individual cells in order to prevent 
unbalance and thus cell reversal during end of discharge. 
When a Ni-Cad does reverse, very high pressure and heat 
can result. The result is often pressure seal rupture, and in 
the worst case, a cell explosion. With SLA batteries, cell 
matching is inherent in each battery. Ni-Cads also have an 
undesirable characteristic caused by constant overcharge 
and infrequent discharges, as in standby applications. It is 
technically known as “voltage depression” and commonly 
but erroneously called “memory effect.” This characteristic 
is only detectable when a full discharge is attempted. Thus, 
it is possible to believe a full charge exists, while in fact it 
does not. SLA batteries do not have this characteristic voltage 
depression (memory) phenomenon, and therefore do not 
require scheduled deep cycle maintenance as do Ni-Cads.
The Ni-Cad emergency battery pack requires relatively 
complicated test equipment due to the complex characteristics 
of the Ni-Cad. Sealed lead acid batteries do not have these 
temperamental characteristics and therefore it is not necessary 
to purchase special battery maintenance equipment. Some 
manufacturers of SLA batteries have included in the battery 
packs a means by which the battery can be tested while still 
installed on the aircraft. Ni-Cads must have a scheduled 
energy test performed on the bench due to the inability to 
measure their energy level on the aircraft, and because of 
their notable “memory” shortcoming.
The SLA battery can be designed to alert the technician if a 
battery is failing. Furthermore, it may be possible to test the 
failure detection circuits by activating a Built in Test (BITE) 
button. This practice significantly reduces FAA paperwork and 
maintenance workload. Figure 12-199 shows a SLA battery.
Lithium-Ion Batteries
Lithium-ion batteries are the primary type of battery for 
many consumer type of equipment, such as cell phones, 
battery-powered tools, and computers, but now they are also 
being used in commercial and military aircraft. The FAA has 
certified lithium-ion batteries to be used on aircraft and one 
of the first aircraft to utilize the lithium-ion battery is the 
Boeing 787. The three primary functional components of a 
lithium-ion battery are the positive and negative electrodes and 
electrolyte. Generally, the negative electrode of a conventional 
lithium-ion cell is made from carbon. The positive electrode is 
a metal-oxide, and the electrolyte is a lithium salt in an organic 
solvent. The electrochemical roles of the electrodes reverse 
between anode and cathode, depending on the direction of 
current flow through the cell. Lithium-ion batteries can be 
dangerous under some conditions and can pose a safety 
hazard since they contain, unlike other rechargeable batteries, 
a flammable electrolyte and are also kept pressurized. Under 
certain conditions, they can overheat and a fire can occur. 
The Boeing 787 aircraft utilizes two large 32V 8 cell lithium-
ion batteries. These batteries are much lighter and more 
powerful than Ni-Cad batteries used in similar-sized aircraft. 
These batteries can produce 150 A for airplane power up. 
Figure 12-200 shows a B787 battery.
Inverters
An inverter is used in some aircraft systems to convert a 
portion of the aircraft’s DC power to AC. This AC is used 
mainly for instruments, radio, radar, lighting, and other 
accessories. These inverters are usually built to supply 
current at a frequency of 400 cps, but some are designed to 
provide more than one voltage; for example, 26 volt AC in 
one winding and 115 volts in another.
There are two basic types of inverters: the rotary and the 
static. Either type can be single-phase or multiphase. The 
multiphase inverter is lighter for the same power rating than 
the single-phase, but there are complications in distributing 
multiphase power and in keeping the loads balanced.

===== PDF-side 535 =====

12-94
Figure 12-199. Sealed battery.
Rotary Inverters
There are many sizes, types, and configurations of rotary 
inverters. Such inverters are essentially AC generators and 
DC motors in one housing. The generator field, or armature, 
and the motor field, or armature, are mounted on a common 
shaft that rotates within the housing. One common type of 
rotary inverter is the permanent magnet inverter.
Permanent Magnet Rotary Inverter
A permanent magnet inverter is composed of a DC motor 
and a permanent magnet AC generator assembly. Each has a 
separate stator mounted within a common housing. The motor 
armature is mounted on a rotor and connected to the DC supply 
through a commutator and brush assembly. The motor field 
windings are mounted on the housing and connected directly 
to the DC supply. A permanent magnet rotor is mounted at 
the opposite end of the same shaft as the motor armature, and 
the stator windings are mounted on the housing, allowing 
AC to be taken from the inverter without the use of brushes. 
Figure 12-201  shows an internal wiring diagram for this 
type of rotary inverter. The generator rotor has six poles, 
magnetized to provide alternate North and South poles about 
its circumference.
When the motor field and armature are excited, the rotor 
begins to turn. As the rotor turns, the permanent magnet rotates 
within the AC stator coils, and the magnetic flux developed 
by the permanent magnets are cut by the conductors in the AC 
stator coils. An AC voltage is produced in the windings whose 
polarity changes as each pole passes the windings.
This type inverter may be made multiphase by placing more 
AC stator coils in the housing in order to shift the phase the 
proper amount in each coil.
As the name of the rotary inverter indicates, it has a revolving 
armature in the AC generator section. Figure 12-202 shows 
the diagram of a revolving armature, three phase inverter.
The DC motor in this inverter is a four pole, compound wound 
motor. The four field coils consist of many turns of fine wire, 
with a few turns of heavy wire placed on top. The fine wire 
is the shunt field, connected to the DC source through a filter 
and to ground through a centrifugal governor. The heavy 
wire is the series field, which is connected in series with the 
motor armature. The centrifugal governor controls the speed 
by shunting a resistor that is in series with the shunt field 
when the motor reaches a certain speed.
The alternator is a three-phase, four-pole, star-connected AC 
generator. The DC input is supplied to the generator field 
coils and connected to ground through a voltage regulator. 
The output is taken off the armature through three slip rings 
to provide three-phase power. The inverter would be a single-
phase inverter if it had a single armature winding and one 
slip ring. The frequency of this type unit is determined by 
the speed of the motor and the number of generator poles.
Inductor-Type Rotary Inverter
Inductor-type inverters use a rotor made of soft iron laminations 
with grooves cut laterally across the surface to provide poles 
that correspond to the number of stator poles. [Figure 12-203] 
The field coils are wound on one set of stationary poles and the 
AC armature coils on the other set of stationary poles. When 
DC is applied to the field coils, a magnetic field is produced. 
The rotor turns within the field coils and, as the poles on the 
rotor align with the stationary poles, a low reluctance path for 
flux is established from the field pole through the rotor poles 
to the AC armature pole and through the housing back to the 
field pole. In this circumstance, there is a large amount of 
magnetic flux linking the AC coils.
When the rotor poles are between the stationary poles, there 
is a high reluctance path for flux, consisting mainly of air; 
then, there is a small amount of magnetic flux linking the AC 
coils. This increase and decrease in flux density in the stator 
induces an alternating current in the AC coils.
The number of poles and the speed of the motor determine 
the frequency of this type of inverter. The DC stator field 
current controls the voltage. A cutaway view of an inductor-
type rotary inverter is shown in Figure 12-204.
Figure 12-205 is a simplified diagram of a typical aircraft 
AC power distribution system, utilizing a main and a standby 
rotary inverter system.
Static Inverters
In many applications where continuous DC voltage must be 
converted to alternating voltage, static inverters are used in 
place of rotary inverters or motor generator sets. The rapid 
progress made by the semiconductor industry is extending

===== PDF-side 536 =====

12-95
Figure 12-200. Boeing 787 lithium-ion battery.
the range of applications of such equipment into voltage and 
power ranges that would have been impractical a few years 
ago. Some such applications are power supplies for frequency 
sensitive military and commercial AC equipment, aircraft 
emergency AC systems, and conversion of wide frequency 
range power to precise frequency power. [Figure 12-206] 
The use of static inverters in small aircraft also has increased 
rapidly in the last few years, and the technology has advanced to 
the point that static inverters are available for any requirement 
filled by rotary inverters. For example, 250 V A emergency AC 
supplies operated from aircraft batteries are in production, 
as are 2,500 V A main AC supplies operated from a varying 
frequency generator supply. This type of equipment has certain 
advantages for aircraft applications, particularly the absence 
of moving parts and the adaptability to conduction cooling.
Static inverters, referred to as solid-state inverters, are 
manufactured in a wide range of types and models that can 
be classified by the shape of the AC output waveform and 
the power output capabilities. One of the most commonly 
used static inverters produces a regulated sine wave output. A 
block diagram of a typical regulated sine wave static inverter 
is shown in Figure 12-207. This inverter converts a low DC 
voltage into higher AC voltage. The AC output voltage is 
held to a very small voltage tolerance, a typical variation 
of less than 1 percent with a full input load change. Output 
taps are normally provided to permit selection of various 
voltages; for example, taps may be provided for 105, 115, 
and 125 volt AC outputs. Frequency regulation is typically 
within a range of one cycle for a 0–100 percent load change. 
Variations of this type of static inverter are available, many 
of which provide a square wave output.
Since static inverters use solid-state components, they are 
considerably smaller, more compact, and much lighter in 
weight than rotary inverters. Depending on the output power 
rating required, static inverters that are no larger than a typical 
airspeed indicator can be used in aircraft systems. Some of 
the features of static inverters are:
1. High efficiency
2. Low maintenance, long life
3. No warmup period required
4. Capable of starting under load
5. Extremely quiet operation
6. Fast response to load changes
Static inverters are commonly used to provide power for 
such frequency sensitive instruments as the attitude gyro and 
directional gyro. They also provide power for autosyn and 
magnesyn indicators and transmitters, rate gyros, radar, and 
other airborne applications. Figure 12-208 is a schematic of 
a typical small jet aircraft auxiliary battery system. It shows 
the battery as input to the inverter and the output inverter 
circuits to various subsystems.
Semiconductors
To understand why solid-state devices function as they do, 
it is necessary to examine the composition and nature of 
semiconductors. The two most common materials used for 
semiconductors are germanium and silicon. The essential 
characteristic of these elements is that each atom has four 
valence electrons to share with adjacent atoms in forming 
bonds. While both elements are used in semiconductor 
construction, silicon is preferred in most modern applications 
due to its ability to operate over a wider range of temperatures. 
The nature of a bond between two silicon atoms is such that 
each atom provides one electron to share with the other. 
The two electrons shared are in fact shared equally between 
the two atoms. This form of sharing is known as a covalent 
bond. Such bonds are very stable and hold the two atoms 
together very tightly requiring much energy to break this 
bond. [Figure 12-209] In this case, all of the outer electrons 
are used to make covalent bonds with other silicon atoms. 
In this condition, because all of the outer shell atoms are 
used, silicon takes on the characteristic of a good insulator, 
due to the fact that there are no open positions available for 
electrons to migrate through the orbits.
For the silicon crystal to conduct electricity, there must be 
some means available to allow some electrons to move from 
place to place within the crystal, regardless of the covalent 
bonds present between the atoms. One way to accomplish this 
is to introduce an impurity, such as arsenic or phosphorus, into 
the crystal structure, which either provides an extra electron 
or create a vacant position in the outer shell for electrons

===== PDF-side 537 =====

12-96
AC coil
Field coil
Field coil
Commutator
Permanent magnet rotor
Filter
AC outputDC input
A B
G
R A
B
Figure 12-201. Internal wiring diagram of single-phase permanent magnet rotary inverter.
to pass though. The method used to create this condition is 
called doping.
Doping
Doping is the process by which small amounts of additives 
called impurities are added to the semiconductor material 
to increase their current flow by adding a few electrons or 
a few holes. Once the material is doped, it then falls into 
one of two categories: the N-type semiconductor and the 
P-type semiconductor.
An N-type semiconductor material is one that is doped with 
an N-type or a donor impurity. Elements such as phosphorus, 
arsenic, and antimony are added as impurities and have five 
outer electrons to share with other atoms. This causes the 
semiconductor material to have an excess electron. Due to 
the surplus of electrons, the electrons are then considered the 
majority current carriers. This electron can easily be moved 
with only a small applied electrical voltage. Current flow 
in an N-type silicon material is similar to conduction in a 
copper wire. That is, with voltage applied across the material, 
electrons will move through the crystal towards the positive 
terminal just like current flows in a copper wire.
A P-type semiconductor is one that is doped with a P-type or 
an acceptor impurity. Elements such as boron, aluminum, and 
gallium have only three electrons in the valence shell to share 
with the silicon atom. Those three electrons form covalent 
bonds with adjacent silicon atoms. However, the expected 
fourth bond cannot be formed and a complete connection 
is impossible here, leaving a “hole” in the structure of the 
crystal. There is an empty place where an electron would 
naturally go, and often an electron moves into that space.

===== PDF-side 538 =====

12-97
AC field
40 ohms
500 ohms
1250 ohms
Brush
connections
DC
shunt
field
DC Filter
Motor
Governor
Alternator
Slip rings
Terminal
board
Voltage
regulator
Grounded
can
Noise 
slide
Rectifier
Plug rear view
27.5 volt input
Common ground inverter
A
A
B
C D
1
2
3
4
B
C
D
115 volt 3 phase 400 cycle AC
output phase sequence ACB
DC
series
field
+
+
–
+
–
–
AC
condenser
Figure 12-202. Internal wiring diagram of three-phase, revolving armature.
However, the electron filling the hole left a covalent bond 
behind to fill this empty space, which leaves another hole 
behind as it moves. Another electron may then move into 
that particular hole, leaving another hole behind. As this 
progression continues, holes appear to move as positive 
charges throughout the crystal. This type of semiconductor 
material is designated P-type silicon material. Figure 12-210 
shows the progression of a hole moving through a number 
of atoms. Notice that the hole illustrated at the far left of 
top depiction of Figure 12-210  attracts the next valence 
electron into the vacancy, which then produces another 
vacancy called a hole in the next position to the right. Once 
again, this vacancy attracts the next valence electron. This 
exchange of holes and electrons continues to progress and 
can be viewed in one of two ways. The first way that this 
flow can be seen as that of electron movement. The electron 
is shown in Figure 12-210 as moving from the right to the 
left through a series of holes. Likewise, the second depiction 
in Figure 12-210 of the motion of the vacated hole can be 
seen as migrating from the left to the right. This view is often 
called hole movement. The valence electron in the structure 
progresses along a path detailed by the arrows. Holes,

===== PDF-side 539 =====

12-98
AC output Field
winding
DC
Flux lines
Magnetic flux
N
N
S
S
N
N
S
S
Figure 12-203. Diagram of basic inductor-type inverter.
however, move along a path opposite that of the electrons.
PN Junctions & the Basic Diode
A single type of semiconductor material by itself is not very 
useful. Useful applications are developed only when a single 
component contains both P-type and N-type materials. The 
semiconductor diode is also known as a PN junction diode. 
This is a two-element semiconductor device that makes 
use of the rectifying properties of a PN junction to convert 
alternating current into direct current by permitting current 
flow in one direction only.
Figure 12-211  illustrates the electrical characteristics of 
an unbiased diode, which means that no external voltage 
is applied. The P-side in the illustration is shown to have 
many holes, while the N-side shows many electrons. The 
electrons on the N-side tend to diffuse out in all directions. 
When an electron enters the P region, it becomes a minority 
carrier. By definition, a minority carrier is an electron or hole, 
whichever is the less dominant carrier in a semiconductor 
device. In P-type materials, electrons are the minority carrier 
and in N-type material, the hole is considered the minority 
carrier. With so many holes around the electron, the electron 
soon drops into a hole. When this occurs, the hole then 
disappears, and the conduction band electron becomes a 
valence electron.
Each time an electron crosses the PN junction, it creates a 
pair of ions. Figure 12-211 shows this area outlined by dashed 
lines. The circled plus signs and the circled negative signs 
are the positive and negative ions, respectively. These ions 
are fixed in the crystal and do not move around like electrons 
or holes in the conduction band. Thus, the depletion zone 
constitutes a layer of a fixed charge. An electrostatic field, 
represented by a small battery in Figure 12-211, is established 
across the junction between the oppositely charged ions.
The junction barrier is an electrostatic field, which has been 
created by the joining of a section of N-type and P-type 
material. Because holes and electrons must overcome this 
field to cross the junction, the electrostatic field is usually 
called a barrier. Because there is a lack or depletion of free 
electrons and holes in the area around the barrier, this area is 
called the depletion region. [Figure 12-211] As the diffusion 
of electrons and holes across the junction continue, the 
strength of the electrostatic field increases until it is strong 
enough to prevent electrons or holes from crossing over. 
At this point, a state of equilibrium exists, and there is no 
further movement across the junction. The electrostatic field 
created at the junction by the ions in the depletion zone is 
called a barrier.
Forward Biased Diode
Figure 12-212 illustrates a forward biased PN junction. When 
an external voltage is applied to a PN junction, it is called 
bias. In a forward biased PN junction or diode, the negative 
voltage source is connected to the N-type material and the 
positive voltage source is connected to the P-type material. 
In this configuration, the current can easily flow. If a battery 
is used to bias the PN junction and it is connected in such a 
way that the applied voltage opposes the junction field, it has 
the effect of reducing the junction barrier and consequently 
aids in the current flow through the junction.
The electrons move toward the junction and the right end 
of the diode becomes slightly positive. This occurs because 
electrons at the right end of the diode move toward the 
junction and leave positively charged atoms behind. The 
positively charged atoms then pull electrons into the diode 
from the negative terminal of the battery.
When electrons on the N-type side approach the junction, 
they recombine with holes. Basically, electrons are flowing 
into the right end of the diode, while the bulk of the electrons 
in the N-type material move toward the junctions. The 
left edge of this moving front of electrons disappears by 
dropping into holes at the junction. In this way, there is a 
continuous current of electrons from the battery moving 
toward the junction.

===== PDF-side 540 =====

12-99
Housing, stator and coil assembly
ArmatureResistor
Head assembly
Fan
Yoke assembly
Resistor
Brush assembly
Commutator
Condenser
Brush retainer cap
Rotor
Figure 12-204. Cutaway view of inductor-type rotary inverter.
When the electrons hit the junction, they then become 
valence electrons. Once a valence electron, they can then 
move through the holes in the P-type material. When the 
valence electrons move through the P-type material from 
the right to the left, a similar movement is occurring with 
the holes by moving from the left side of the P-type material 
to the right. Once the valence electron reaches the end of 
the diode, it then flows back into the positive terminal of 
the battery.
In summary:
1. Electron leaves negative terminal of the battery and 
enters the right end (N-type material) of the diode.
2. Electron then travels through the N-type material.
3. The electron nears the junction and recombines and 
becomes a valence electron.
4. The electron now travels through the P-type material 
as a valence electron.
5. The electron then leaves the diode and flows back to 
the positive terminal of the battery.
Reverse Biased Diode
When the battery is turned around as shown in Figure 12-213, 
then the diode is reverse biased and current does not flow. The 
most noticeable effect seen is the widened depletion zone.
The applied battery voltage is in the same direction as the 
depletion zone field. Because of this, holes and electrons tend 
to move away from the junction. Simply stated, the negative 
terminal attracts the holes away from the junction, and the 
positive terminal attracts the electrons away from the barrier. 
Therefore, the result is a wider depletion zone. This action 
increases the barrier width because there are more negative 
ions on the P-side of the junction and more positive ions on 
the N-side of the junction. This increase in the number of 
ions at the junction prevents current flow across the barrier 
by the majority carriers.
To summarize, the important thing to remember is that these 
PN junction diodes offer very little resistance to current when 
the diode is forward biased. Maximum resistance happens

===== PDF-side 541 =====

12-100
AC switching
relay
AC primary bus
AC secondary bus
MAIN
Stdby
Off
Left
generator
DC bus
Inverter switch
DC power
Main
inverter
power
relay
Main
inverter
AC bus tie
breaker
Weather radar
From main
inverter only
From standby
inverter only
Circuit energized by
standby inverter only with
inverter switch set to main
and radar switch set to on.
RMI card
RMI pointer26 VAC bus
or
Engine oil pressure ratio
Oil pressureStandby
inverter
Secondary
inverter
power
relay
Right
generator
DC bus
115 VAC power 26 VAC power
Figure 12-205. A typical aircraft AC power distribution system using main and standby rotary inverters.
Figure 12-206. Static inverter.
when the diode is reversed biased. Figure 12-214 shows a 
graph of the current characteristics of a diode that is biased 
in both directions.
Rectifiers
Many devices in an aircraft require high amperage, low 
voltage DC for operation. This power may be furnished by 
DC engine-driven generators, motor generator sets, vacuum 
tube rectifiers, or dry disk or solid-state rectifiers.
In aircraft with AC systems, a special DC generator is not 
desirable since it would be necessary for the engine accessory 
section to drive an additional piece of equipment. Motor 
generator sets, consisting of air-cooled AC motors that drive 
DC generators, eliminate this objection because they operate 
directly off the AC power system. Vacuum tube or various 
types of solid-state rectifiers provide a simple and efficient 
method of obtaining high voltage DC at low amperage. 
Dry disk and solid-state rectifiers, on the other hand, are an 
excellent source of high amperage at low voltage.
A rectifier is a device that transforms AC into DC by limiting 
or regulating the direction of current flow. The principal 
types of rectifiers are dry disk and solid state. Solid-state, 
or semiconductor, rectifiers have replaced virtually all 
other types; and, since dry disk and motor generators are 
largely limited to older model aircraft, the major part of the 
study of rectifiers is devoted to solid-state devices used for 
rectification. The two methods discussed in this handbook

===== PDF-side 542 =====

12-101
Gear control
Flaps
Spoiler
Wheel master
Nose steering relay
Yaw trim
Altitude gyro
Auxiliary
battery
Normally
closed relay
Directional gyro
Roll trim
ADF
On
(MOM)
Off
Gear, flap, spoiler
switch
Pilot’s audio
Copilot’s map light
Transceiver
On
Off
Gyros
Battery
Inverter
Right fwd bus
Right fwd bus
Transceiver light
Altitude
gyro light
Directional
gyro light
Figure 12-208. Auxiliary battery system using static inverter.
Resonant filter
regulator
Output keyer
Buffer amplifier
DC regulator
Square wave
oscillator DC input
AC output
Figure 12-207. Regulated sine wave static inverter.
are the half-wave rectifier and the full-wave rectifier.
Half-Wave Rectifier
Figure 12-215 illustrates the basic concept of a half-wave 
rectifier. When an AC signal is on a positive swing as shown 
in Figure 12-215A, the polarities across the diode and the load 
resistor are also positive. In this case, the diode is forward 
biased and can be replaced with a short circuit as shown in 
the figure. The positive portion of the input signal appears 
across the load resistor with no loss in potential across the 
series diode.
Figure 12-215B now shows the input signal being reversed. 
Note that the polarities across the diode and the load resistor are 
also reversed. In this case, the diode is now reverse biased and 
can be replaced with an equivalent open circuit. The current 
in the circuit is now 0 amperes and the voltage drop over the 
load resistor is 0 volts. The resulting waveform for a complete

===== PDF-side 543 =====

12-102
Si
Si
Si Si
SiSi
SiSiSi
Si
A
B
Electron movement
Silicon atom showing one of the electrons in its 
valence shell
Silicon atom in which one electron has broken out of 
its valence shell and left a hole
Electron moving from one silicon atom to another 
and leaving a hole
Hole movement
N-typeP-type
N-typeDepletion zone
Represents electrostatic field
P-type
Figure 12-209. Valence electrons.
Figure 12-210. A hole moving through atoms.
Figure 12-211. Depletion region.
sinusoidal input can be seen at the far right of Figure 12-215. 
The output waveform is a reproduction of the input waveform 
minus the negative voltage swing of the wave. For this reason, 
this type of rectifier is called a half-wave rectifier.
Full-Wave Rectifier
Figure 12-216 illustrates a more common use of the diode as 
a rectifier. This type of a rectifier is called a full-wave bridge 
rectifier. The term “full-wave” indicates that the output is a 
continuous sequence of pulses rather than having gaps that 
appear in the half-wave rectifier.
Figure 12-216C shows the initial condition, during which, a 
positive portion of the input signal is applied to the network. 
Note the polarities across the diodes. Diodes D2 and D4 are 
reverse biased and can be replaced with an open circuit. 
Diodes D1 and D3 are forward biased and act as an open 
circuit. The current path through the diodes is clear to see, and 
the resulting waveform is developed across the load resistor.
During the negative portion of the applied signal, the diodes 
reverse their polarity and bias states. The result is a network 
shown in Figure 12-216D. Current now passes through diodes 
D4 and D2, which are forward biased, while diodes D1 and 
D3 are essentially open circuits due to being reverse biased. 
Note that during both alternations of the input waveform, the 
current passes through the load resistor in the same direction. 
This results in the negative swing of the waveform being 
flipped up to the positive side of the time line.
Dry Disk
Dry disk rectifiers operate on the principle that electric 
current flows through a junction of two dissimilar conducting 
materials more readily in one direction than it does in the 
opposite direction. This is true because the resistance to 
current flow in one direction is low, while in the other 
direction it is high. Depending on the materials used, several 
amperes may flow in the direction of low resistance but only

===== PDF-side 544 =====

12-103
N-type
Narrow depletion zone
P-type
+ –
Holes Electrons
Electron flow
e –
N-typeWide depletion zoneP-type
+–
Figure 12-212. Forward biased PN junction.
Figure 12-213. Reversed diode.
a few milliamperes in the direction of high resistance.
Three types of dry disk rectifiers may be found in aircraft: 
the copper oxide rectifier, the selenium rectifier, and the 
magnesium copper-sulfide rectifier. The copper oxide 
rectifier consists of a copper disk upon which a layer of 
copper oxide has been formed by heating. [Figure 12-217] 
It may also consist of a chemical copper oxide preparation 
spread evenly over the copper surface. Metal plates, usually 
lead plates, are pressed against the two opposite faces of the 
disk to form a good contact. Current flow is from the copper 
to the copper oxide.
The selenium rectifier consists of an iron disk, similar to a 
washer, with one side coated with selenium. Its operation is 
similar to that of the copper oxide rectifier. Current flows 
from the selenium to the iron.
The magnesium copper sulfide rectifier is made of washer-
shaped magnesium disks coated with a layer of copper 
sulfide. The disks are arranged similarly to the other types. 
Current flows from the magnesium to the copper sulfide.
Types of Diodes
Today, there are many varieties of diodes that can be grouped 
into one of several basic categories.
Power Rectifier Diodes
The rectifier diode is usually used in applications that require 
high current, such as power supplies. The range in which 
the diode can handle current can vary anywhere from one 
ampere to hundreds of amperes. One common example 
of diodes is the series of diodes, part numbers 1N4001 
to 1N4007. The “1N” indicates that there is only one PN 
junction, or that the device is a diode. The average current 
carrying range for these rectifier diodes is about one ampere 
with a peak inverse voltage between 50 volts to 1,000 volts. 
Larger rectifier diodes can carry currents up to 300 amperes 
when forward biased and have a peak inverse voltage of 600 
volts. A recognizable feature of the larger rectifier diodes 
is that they are encased in metal in order to provide a heat 
sink. [Figure 12-218] 
Zener Diodes
Zener diodes (sometimes called “breakdown diodes”) are 
designed so that they break down (allow current to pass) 
when the circuit potential is equal to or in excess of the 
desired reverse bias voltage. The range of reverse bias 
breakdown-voltages commonly found can range from 2 
volts to 200 volts depending on design. Once a specific 
reverse bias voltage has been reached, the diode conducts 
and behaves like a constant voltage source. Within the 
normal operating range, the zener functions as a voltage 
regulator, waveform clipper, and other related functions. 
Below the desired voltage, the zener blocks the circuit like 
any other diode biased in the reverse direction. Because 
the zener diode allows free flow in one direction when it 
is used in an AC circuit, two diodes connected in opposite 
directions must be used. This takes care of both alternations 
of current. Power ratings of these devices range from about 
250 milliwatts to 50 watts.
Special Purpose Diodes
The unique characteristics of semiconductor material have 
allowed for the development of many specialized types of 
diodes. A short description of some of the more common diode 
types is given for general familiarization. [Figure 12-219]
Light-Emitting Diode (LED)
In a forward biased diode, electrons cross the junction 
and fall into holes. As the electrons fall into the valence 
band, they radiate energy. In a rectifier diode, this energy 
is dissipated as heat. However, in the light-emitting diode 
(LED), the energy is dissipated as light. By using elements 
such as gallium, arsenic, and phosphorous, an LED can be 
designed to radiate colors, such as red, green, yellow, blue, 
and infrared light. LEDs that are designed for the visible light 
portion of the spectrum are useful for instruments, indicators, 
and even cabin lighting. The advantages of the LED over the 
incandescent lamps are longer life, lower voltage, faster on 
and off operations, and less heat.

===== PDF-side 545 =====

12-104
A
B
A
B
RL
Forward bias (Short circuit)
+
+
−
−
+
−
RL
+
+
−
−
+
−
Reverse bias (Open circuit)
V–
V+
Time
120 v
–120 v
V–
V+
Time
120 v
V–
V+
Time
Input Signal Circuit Depiction Output Wave-form Across Load Resistor
Half-wave Rectification
Figure 12-215. Basic concept of half-wave rectifier.
120v 90v 60v 30v
    1v 2v 3v 4v 5v
60 mA
50 mA
40 mA
30 mA
20 mA
10 mA
600 Aμ
1200 Aμ
Junction diode characteristics
Figure 12-214. Diode biased in both directions.
Liquid Crystal Displays (LCD)
The liquid crystal display (LCD) has an advantage over the 
LED in that it requires less power to operate. Where LEDs 
commonly operate in the milliwatt range, the LCD operates 
in the microwatt range. The liquid crystal is encapsulated 
between two glass plates. When voltage is not applied to the 
LCD, the display is clear. However, when a voltage is applied, 
the result is a change in the orientation of the atoms of the 
crystals. The incident light is then reflected in a different 
direction. A frosted appearance results in the regions that have 
voltage applied and permits distinguishing of numeric values.
Photodiode
Thermal energy produces minority carriers in a diode. The 
higher the temperature, the greater the current in a reverse 
current diode. Light energy can also produce minority 
carriers. By using a small window to expose the PN junction, 
a photodiode can be built. When light falls upon the junction 
of a reverse-biased photodiode, electrons-hole pairs are 
created inside the depletion layer. The stronger the light, 
the greater the number of light-produced carriers, which in 
turn causes a greater magnitude of reverse-current. Because 
of this characteristic, the photodiode can be used in light 
detecting circuits.
Varactors
The varactor is simply a variable-capacitance diode. The 
reverse voltage applied controls the variable-capacitance 
of the diode. The transitional capacitance decreases as 
the reverse voltage is increasingly applied. In many

===== PDF-side 546 =====

12-105
D
BA
C
RL
D2D1
D3D4
+
−
+ −
RL
D1
D3
+
− +
+
+−
−
−
RL
D2
D4
+
− +
+
+
−
−
−
V–
V+
Time
120 v
–120 v
Input signal
V–
V+
Time
120 v 120 v
Output wave-form
Across load resistorCircuit depiction
Current
Current
Current
Current
Figure 12-216. Full-wave bridge rectifier.
applications, the varactor has replaced the old mechanically 
tuned capacitors. Varactors can be placed in parallel with 
an inductor and provide a resonant tank circuit for a tuning 
circuit. By simply varying the reverse voltage across the 
varactor, the resonant frequency of the circuit can be adjusted.
Schottky Diodes
Schottky diodes are designed to have metal, such as gold, 
silver, or platinum, on one side of the junction and doped 
silicon, usually an N-type, on the other side of the junction. 
This type of a diode is considered a unipolar device because 
free electrons are the majority carrier on both sides of the 
junction. The Schottky diode has no depletion zone or charge 
storage, which means that the switching time can be as high as 
300 MHz. This characteristic exceeds that of the bipolar diode.
Diode Identification
Figure 12-218 illustrates a number of methods employed 
for identifying diodes. Typically manufacturers place some 
form of an identifier on the diode to indicate which end is 
the anode and which end is the cathode. Dots, bands, colored 
bands, the letter ‘k’ or unusual shapes indicate the cathode 
end of the diode.
Introduction to Transistors
The transistor is a three-terminal device primarily used 
to amplify signals and control current within a circuit. 
[Figure 12-220] The basic two-junction semiconductor must 
have one type of region sandwiched between two of the other 
type. The three regions in a transistor are the collector (C), 
which is moderately doped, the emitter (E), which is heavily 
doped, and the base (B), which is significantly less doped. 
The alternating layers of semiconductor material type provide 
the common commercial name for each type of transistor. The 
interface between the layers is called a junction. Selenium 
and germanium diodes previously discussed are examples 
of junction diodes. Note that the sandwiched layer or base 
is significantly thinner than the collector or the emitter. In 
general, this permits a “punching through” action for the 
carriers passing between the collector and emitter terminals.
Classification
The transistors are classified as either NPN or PNP according 
to the arrangement of their N and P-materials. The NPN 
transistor is formed by introducing a thin region of P-material 
between two regions of N-type material. The opposite is true 
for the PNP configuration.
The two basic types of transistors along with their circuit

===== PDF-side 547 =====

12-106
Approx. 0.75"
Schematic symbol
General purpose signal diodes
Approx. 0.1"
(+) Anode Cathode (−)
(+) Anode Cathode (−)
Cathode (−)(+) Anode
Approx. 0.2"
Approx. 1.5"
Rectifier diodes 35 ampere silicon rectifier
Figure 12-218. General purpose diodes.
Copper
Lead
Insulating washer
Insulating tube
Pressure plate
Copper oxide
Direction of
circuit flow
Figure 12-217. Copper oxide dry disk rectifier.
symbols are shown in Figure 12-221 . Note that the two 
symbols are different. The horizontal line represents the base, 
and two angular lines represent the emitter and collector. The 
angular line with the arrow on it is the emitter, while the line 
without is the collector. The direction of the arrow on the 
emitter determines whether or not the transistor is a PNP or 
an NPN type. If the arrow is pointing in, the transistor is a 
PNP. On the other hand, if the arrow is pointing out, then it 
is an NPN type.
Transistor Theory
As discussed in the section on diodes, the movement of 
the electrons and holes can be considered current. Electron 
current moves in one direction, while hole current travels in 
the opposite direction. In transistors, both electrons and holes 
act as carriers of current.
A forward biased PN junction is comparable to a low-
resistance circuit element, because it passes a high current 
for a given voltage. On the other hand, a reverse-biased PN 
junction is comparable to a high-resistance circuit element. 
By using Ohm’s Law formula for power (P = I 2R) and 
assuming current is held constant through both junctions, it 
can be concluded that the power developed across the high 
resistance junction is greater than that developed across a low 
resistance junction. Therefore, if a crystal were to contain 
two PN junctions, one forward biased and the other reverse 
biased, and a low-power signal injected into the forward 
biased junction, a high-power signal could be produced at 
the reverse-biased junction.
To use the transistor as an amplifier, some sort of external 
bias voltage must modify each of the junctions. The first PN 
junction (emitter-base) is biased in the forward direction. 
This produces a low resistance. The second junction, which 
is the collector-base junction, is reverse biased to produce a 
high resistance. [Figure 12-222]

===== PDF-side 548 =====

12-107
Schottky diode
Step-recovery diode
Zener
LED
Photodiode
Varactor
Figure 12-219. Schematic symbols for special purpose diodes.
With the emitter-base junction biased in the forward direction, 
electrons leave the negative terminal of the battery and enter 
the N-material. These electrons pass easily through the 
emitter, cross over the junction, and combine with the hole 
in the P-material in the base. For each electron that fills a 
hole in the P-material, another electron leaves the P-material, 
which creates a new hole and enters the positive terminal of 
the battery.
The second PN junction, which is the base-collector junction, 
is reverse biased. This prevents the majority carriers from 
crossing the junction, thus creating a high-resistance circuit. 
It is worth noting that there still is a small current passing 
through the reversed PN junction in the form of minority 
carriers—that is, electrons in the P-material and holes in the 
N-material. The minority carriers play a significant part in 
the operation of the NPN transistor.
Figure 12-223 illustrates the basic interaction of the NPN 
junction. There are two batteries in the circuit used to bias the 
NPN transistor. Vbb is considered the base voltage supply, 
rated in this illustration at 1 volt, and the battery voltage 
Vcc, rated at 6 volts, is called the collector voltage supply.
Current within the external circuit is simply the movement 
of free electrons originating at the negative terminal of the 
battery and flowing to the N-material. [Figure 12-223] 
As the electrons enter the N-material, they become the 
majority carrier and move through the N-material to the 
emitter-base PN junction. This emitter-base junction is 
forward biased at about 0.65 to 0.7 volts positive with 
respect to the emitter and presents no resistance to the flow of 
electrons from the emitter into the base, which is composed of 
P-material. As these electrons move into the base, they drop 
into available holes. For every electron that drops into a hole, 
another electron exits the base by way of the base lead and 
becomes the base current or Ib. Of course, when one electron 
leaves the base, a new hole is formed. From the standpoint of 
the collector, these electrons that drop into holes are lost and 
of no use. To reduce this loss of electrons, the transistor is 
designed so that the base is very thin in relation to the emitter 
and collector, and the base is lightly doped.
Most of the electrons that move into the base fall under the 
influence of the reverse bias of the collector. While collector-
base junction is reverse biased with respect to the majority 
carriers, it behaves as if it is forward biased to the electrons 
or minority carriers in this case. The electrons are accelerated 
through the collector-base junction and into the collector. The 
collector is comprised of the N-type material; therefore, the 
electrons once again become the majority carrier. Moving 
easily through the collector, the electrons return to the 
positive terminal of the collector supply battery Vcc, which 
is shown in Figure 12-223 as Ic.
Because of the way this device operates to transfer current 
(and its internal resistances) from the original conduction path 
to another, its name is a combination of the words “transfer” 
and “resistor”—transistor.
PNP Transistor Operation
The PNP transistor generally works the same way as the 
NPN transistor. The primary difference is that the emitter, 
base, and collector materials are made of different material 
than the NPN. The majority and minority current carriers 
are the opposite in the PNP to that of the NPN. In the case 
of the PNP, the majority carriers are the holes instead of the 
electrons in the NPN transistor. To properly bias the PNP, the 
polarity of the bias network must be reversed.
Identification of Transistors
Figure 12-224 illustrates some of the more common transistor 
lead identifications. The methods of identifying leads vary 
due to a lack of a standard and require verification using 
manufacturer information to properly identify. However, a 
short description of the common methods is discussed below.
Figure 12-224D  shows an oval-shaped transistor. The 
collector lead in this case is identified by the wide space 
between it and the lead for the base. The final lead at the 
far left is the emitter. In many cases, colored dots indicate 
the collector lead, and short leads relative to the other leads 
indicate the emitter. In a conventional power diode, as seen 
in Figure 12-224E, the collector lead is usually a part of the 
mounting bases, while the emitter and collector are leads or 
tines protruding from the mounting surface.
Field Effect Transistors
Another transistor design that has become more important 
than the bipolar transistor is the field-effect transistor (FET). 
The primary difference between the bipolar transistor and the 
FET is that the bipolar transistor has two PN junctions and

===== PDF-side 549 =====

12-108
P N PEmitter Collector
Base
PN junctions
N P NEmitter Collector
Base
PN junctions
P N P
Emitter Collector
Base
N P N
Base
Emitter Collector
Base
BaseFigure 12-220. Transistor.
Figure 12-221. Two basic transistors with circuit symbols.
is a current-controlled device, while the FET has only one 
PN junction and is a voltage-controlled device. Within the 
FET family, there are two general categories of components. 
One category is called the junction FET (JFET), which has 
only one PN junction. The other category is known as the 
enhancement-type or metal-oxide JET (MOSFET).
Figure 12-225 shows the basic construction of the JFET and 
the schematic symbol. In this figure, it can be seen that the 
drain (D) and source (S) are connected to an N-type material, 
and the gate (G) is connected to the P-type material. With 
gate voltage Vgg set to 0 volts and drain voltage Vdd set to 
some positive voltage, a current flows between the source 
and the drain, through a narrow band of N-material. If then, 
Vgg is adjusted to some negative voltage, the PN junction 
is reverse biased, and a depletion zone (no charge carriers) 
is established at the PN junction. By reducing the region of 
noncarriers, it has the effect of reducing the dimensions of the 
N-channel, resulting in a reduction of source to drain current.
Because JFETs are voltage-controlled devices, they have some 
advantages over the bipolar transistor. One such advantage 
is that because the gate is reverse biased, the circuit that it 
is connected to sees the gate as a very high resistance. This 
means that the JFET has less of an insertion influence in the 
circuit. The high resistance also means that less current is used.
Like many other solid-state devices, careless handling and 
static electricity can damage the JFET. Technicians should 
take all precautions to prevent such damage.
Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor FET (MOSFET)  
Figure 12-226 illustrates the general construction and the 
schematic symbol of the MOSFET transistor. The biasing 
arrangement for the MOSFET is essentially the same as that 
for the JFET. The term “enhancement” comes from the idea 
that when there is no bias voltage applied to the gate (G), 
then there is no channel for current conduction between the 
source (S) and the drain (D). By applying a greater voltage on 
the gate (G), the P-channel begins to materialize and grow in 
size. Once this occurs, the source (S) to drain (D) current Id 
increases. The schematic symbol reflects this characteristic 
by using a broken line to indicate that the channel does not 
exist without a gate bias.
Common Transistor Configurations
A transistor may be connected in one of three different 
configurations: common-emitter (CE), common-base (CB), 
and common-collector (CC). The term “common” is used 
to indicate which element of the transistor is common 
to both the input and the output. Each configuration has 
its own characteristics, which makes each configuration 
suitable for particular applications. A way to determine what 
configuration you may find in a circuit is to first determine 
which of the three transistor elements is used for the input 
signal. Then, determine the element used for the output 
signal. At that point, the remaining element, (base, emitter, 
or collector) is the common element to both the input and 
output, and thus you determine the configuration.
Common-Emitter (CE) Configuration
This is the configuration most commonly used in amplifier

===== PDF-side 550 =====

12-109
+
−
+
−
Emitter
Vcc = 6 volts
CollectorReverse biased junction
Hole [blue]
Electron [green]
lb
Vbb = 1 volt
Forward biased
junction
le
lc
N
P
N
Base
+
−
+
−
Figure 12-222. NPN transistor.
Figure 12-223. NPN Junction.
circuits because they provide good gains for voltage, current, 
and power. The input signal is applied to the base-emitter 
junction, which is forward biased (low resistance), and the 
output signal is taken off the collector-emitter junction, 
which is reverse biased (high resistance). Then the emitter 
is the common element to both input and output circuits. 
[Figure 12-227]
When the transistor is connected in a CE configuration, the 
input signal is injected between the base and emitter, which 
is a low-resistance, low-current circuit. As the input signal 
goes positive, it causes the base to go positive relative to 
the emitter. This causes a decrease in the forward bias, 
which in turn reduces the collector current IC and increases 
the collector voltage (EC being more negative). During the 
negative portion of the input signal, the voltage on the base 
is driven more negative relative to the emitter. This increases 
the forward bias and allows an increase in collector current 
IC and a decrease in collector voltage (EC being less negative 
and going positive). The collector current, which flows 
through the reverse-biased junction, also flows through a 
high-resistance load resulting in a high level of amplification.
Because the input signal to the CE goes positive when the 
output goes negative, the two signals are 180° out of phase. 
This is the only configuration that provides a phase reversal. 
The CE is the most popular of the three configurations 
because it has the best combination of current and voltage 
gain. Gain is a term used to indicate the magnitude of 
amplification. Each transistor configuration has its unique 
gain characteristics even though the same transistors are used.
Common-Collector (CC) Configuration
This transistor configuration is usually used for impedance 
matching. It is also used as a current driver due to its high 
current gain. It is also very useful in switching circuits 
since it has the ability to pass signals in either direction. 
[Figure 12-227]
In the CC circuit, the input signal is applied to the base, and the 
output signal is taken from the emitter, leaving the collector as 
the common point between the input and the output. The input 
resistance of the CC circuit is high, while the output resistance 
is low. The current gain is higher than that in the CE, but it has 
a lower power gain than either the CE or CB configuration. Just 
like the CB configuration, the output signal of the CC circuit 
is in phase with the input signal. The CC is typically referred 
to as an emitter-follower because the output developed on the 
emitter follows the input signal applied to the base.
Common-Base (CB) Configuration
The primary use of this configuration is for impedance 
matching because it has low input impedance and high 
output resistance. Two factors, however, limit the usefulness 
of this circuit application. First is the low-input resistance 
and second is its lack of current, which is always below 1. 
Since the CB configuration gives voltage amplification, there 
are some applications for this circuit, such as microphone 
amplifiers. [Figure 12-227]
In the CB circuit, the input signal is applied to the emitter and 
the output signal is taken from the collector. In this case, both 
the input and the output have the base as a common element. 
When an input signal is applied to the emitter, it causes the 
emitter-base junction to react in the same manner as that in 
the CE circuit. When an input adds to the bias, it increases 
the transistor current; conversely, when the signal opposes 
the bias, the current in the transistor decreases.
The signal adds to the forward bias, since it is applied to 
the emitter, causing the collector current to increase. This 
increase in I C results in a greater voltage drop across the

===== PDF-side 551 =====

12-110
+
Gate (G)
Gate (G)
Drain (D)
Drain (D)
ID
IS
VGG
VDD
Source (S)
Source (S)
N-material
P-material
Charge free or depletion zone
P-channelN-channel
JFET symbol
JFET construction
Drain (D) Source (S)
Gate (G)
−
+ −
+
+
−
Figure 12-225. JFET and the schematic symbol.
Color dot
Color dot
E
E
E
BB
C
C
B C
E B C
A B C D E
E
B
Figure 12-224. Common transistor lead identifications.
load resistor RL, thus lowering the collector voltage E C. 
The collector voltage, in becoming less negative, swings in a 
positive direction and is therefore in phase with the incoming 
positive signal.
Vacuum Tubes
The use of vacuum tubes in aircraft electrical and electronic 
systems has rapidly declined due to the many advantages 
of using transistors. However, some systems still employ 
vacuum tubes in special applications, and possibly some 
older model aircraft still in service are equipped with devices 
that use vacuum tubes. While these components may still 
be in service, their infrequent occurrence does not warrant 
a detailed discussion.
Originally, vacuum tubes were developed for radio work. 
They are used in radio transmitters as amplifiers for 
controlling voltage and current, as oscillators for generating 
audio and radio frequency signals, and as rectifiers for 
converting AC into DC. While there are many types of 
vacuum tubes for a variety of applications, the most common 
types fall into one of the following families: (1) diode, (2) 
triode, (3) tetrode, and (4) pentode. Each of these vacuum 
tube types operates on the following fundamental principles.
When a piece of metal is heated, the speed of the electrons 
in the metal is increased. If the metal is heated to a high 
enough temperature, the electrons are accelerated to the 
point where some of them actually leave the surface of the 
metal. In a vacuum tube, electrons are supplied by a piece of 
metal called a cathode, which is heated by an electric current. 
Within limits, the hotter the cathode, the greater the number 
of electrons it gives off or emits.
To increase the number of electrons emitted, the cathode 
is usually coated with special chemical compounds. If an 
external field does not draw the emitted electrons away, they 
form about the cathode into a negatively-charged cloud called 
the space charge. The accumulation of negative electrons 
near the emitter repels others coming from the emitter. The 
emitter, if insulated, becomes positive because of the loss of 
electrons. This establishes an electrostatic field between the 
cloud of negative electrons and the now positive cathode. A 
balance is reached when only enough electrons flow from the 
cathode to the area surrounding it to supply the loss caused 
by diffusion of the space charge.

===== PDF-side 552 =====

12-111
Gate (G)
Applied voltage +
Drain (D)Source (S)
P-material
MOSFET symbol
MOSFET construction
+−
N-MOSFET
Drain (D)Source (S)
Gate (G)
P-MOSFET
Drain (D)Source (S)
Gate (G)
N N
NPN
Input
Output
PNP
Input
Output
NPN
Input
Output
NPN
Input Output
PNP
Input Output
PNP
Input
Output
Common-emitter
Common-collector
Common-base
Figure 12-226.  General construction and schematic symbol of 
MOSFET transistor.
Figure 12-227.  Transistor configurations (common-emitter, 
common-collector, common-base).
Filtering
One of the more common uses of the capacitor and inductor 
that the technician may find in the field is that of the filter.
Filtering Characteristics of Capacitors
The nature of capacitance opposes a voltage change across its 
terminal by storing energy in its electrostatic field. Whenever 
the voltage tends to rise, the capacitor converts this voltage 
change to stored energy. When the voltage tends to fall, the 
capacitor converts this stored energy back to voltage. The use 
of a capacitor for filtering the output of a rectifier is illustrated 
in Figure 12-228. The rectifier is shown as a block, and the 
capacitor C1 is connected in parallel with the load R1.
The capacitor C1 is chosen to offer very low impedance to 
the AC ripple frequency and very high impedance to the 
DC component. The ripple voltage is therefore bypassed 
to ground through the low impedance path of the capacitor, 
while the DC voltage is applied unchanged to the load. The 
effect of the capacitor on the output of the rectifier can be seen 
in the waveshapes shown in Figure 12-229. Dotted lines show 
the rectifier output, while the solid lines show the effect of 
the capacitor. In this example, full-wave rectifier outputs are 
shown. The capacitor C1 charges when the rectifier voltage 
output tends to increase and discharges when the voltage 
output tends to decrease. In this manner, the voltage across 
the load R1 is kept fairly constant.
Filtering Characteristics of Inductors
The inductance provided by an inductor may be used as a 
filter, because it opposes a change in current through it by 
storing energy in its electromagnetic field. Whenever the 
current increases, the stored energy in the electromagnetic 
field increases. When the current through the inductor 
decreases, the inductor supplies the energy back into the 
circuit in order to maintain the existing flow of current. 
The use of an inductor for filtering the output of a rectifier 
is shown in Figure 12-230. Note that in this network the 
inductor L1 is in series with the load R1.
The inductance L1  is selected to offer high impedance to the 
AC ripple voltage and low impedance to the DC component. 
The result is a very large voltage drop across the inductor 
and a very small voltage drop across the load R 1. For the 
DC component, however, a very small voltage drop occurs 
across the inductor and a very large voltage drop across the 
load. The effect of an inductor on the output of a full-wave 
rectifier in the output waveshape is shown in Figure 12-231.
Common Filter Configurations
Capacitors and inductors are combined in various ways to 
provide more satisfactory filtering than can be obtained 
with a single capacitor or inductor. These are referred to 
collectively as LC filters. Several combinations are shown 
schematically in Figure 12-232. Note that the L, or inverted 
L-type, and the T-type filter sections resemble schematically

===== PDF-side 553 =====

12-112
the corresponding letters of the alphabet. The pi-type filter 
section resembles the Greek letter pi (π) schematically.
All the filter sections shown are similar in that the inductances 
are in series and the capacitances are in parallel with the 
load. The inductances must, therefore, offer very high 
impedance and the capacitors very low impedance to the 
ripple frequency. Since the ripple frequency is comparatively 
low, the inductances are iron core coils having large values 
of inductance (several henries). Because they offer such 
high impedance to the ripple frequency, these coils are called 
chokes. The capacitors must also be large (several microfarads) 
to offer very little opposition to the ripple frequency. Because 
the voltage across the capacitor is DC, electrolytic capacitors 
are frequently used as filter capacitors. Always observe the 
correct polarity in connecting electrolytic capacitors.
LC filters are also classified according to the position of 
the capacitor and inductor. A capacitor input filter is one in 
which the capacitor is connected directly across the output 
terminals of the rectifier. A choke input filter is one in which 
a choke precedes the filter capacitor.
If it is necessary to increase the applied voltage to more than 
a single rectifier can tolerate, the usual solution is to stack 
them. These rectifiers are similar to resistors added in series. 
Each resistor drops a portion of the applied voltage rather than 
the total voltage. The same theory applies to rectifiers added 
in series or stacked. Series stacking increases the voltage 
rating. If, for example, a rectifier is destroyed with an applied 
voltage exceeding 50 volts, and it is to be used in a circuit 
with an applied voltage of 150 volts, stacking of diodes can 
be employed. The result is shown in Figure 12-233.
Basic LC Filters
Analog filters are circuits that perform signal processing 
functions, specifically intended to remove unwanted signal 
components, such as ripple, and enhance desired signals. The 
simplest analog filters are based on combinations of inductors 
and capacitors. The four basic categories of filters discussed 
are: low-pass, high-pass, band-pass and band-stop. All these 
types are collectively known as passive filters, because they 
do not depend on any external power source.
The operation of a filter relies on the characteristic of variable 
inductive and capacitive reactance based on the applied 
frequency. In review, the inductor blocks high-frequency 
signals (high reactance) and conducts low-frequency 
signals (low reactance), while capacitors do the reverse. 
A filter in which the signal passes through an inductor, or 
in which a capacitor provides a path to earth, presents less 
attenuation (reduction) to a low-frequency signal than to a 
high-frequency signal and is considered a low-pass filter. If 
the signal passes through a capacitor, or has a path to ground 
through an inductor, then the filter presents less attenuation 
to high-frequency signals than low-frequency signals and 
is then considered a high-pass filter. Typically after an AC 
signal is rectified, the pulses of voltage are changed to usable 
form of DC by way of filtering.
Low-Pass Filter
A low-pass filter is a filter that passes low frequencies well, 
but attenuates (reduces) higher frequencies. The so-called 
cutoff frequency divides the range of frequencies that are 
passed and the range of frequencies that are stopped. In other 
words, the frequency components higher than the cutoff 
frequency are stopped by a low-pass filter. The actual amount 
of attenuation for each frequency varies by filter design.
An inductive low-pass filter inserts an inductor in series with 
the load, where a capacitive low-pass filter inserts a resistor 
in series and a capacitor in parallel with the load. The former 
filter design tries to block the unwanted frequency signal 
while the latter tries to short it out. Figure 12-234 illustrates 
this type of circuit and the frequency/current flow response.
High-Pass Filter (HPF)
A high-pass filter (HPF) is a filter that passes high frequencies 
well, but attenuates (reduces) frequencies lower than the 
cutoff frequency. The actual amount of attenuation for each 
frequency varies once again depending on filter design. In 
some cases, it is called a low-cut filter. A HPF is essentially 
the opposite of a low-pass filter.
It is useful as a filter to block any unwanted low frequency 
components of a signal while passing the desired higher 
frequencies. Figure 12-235 illustrates this type of circuit and 
the frequency/current flow response. 
Band-Pass Filter
A band-pass filter is basically a combination of a high- 
pass and a low-pass. There are some applications where 
a particular range of frequencies need to be singled out or 
filtered from a wider range of frequencies. Band-pass filter 
circuits are designed to accomplish this task by combining 
the properties of low-pass and high-pass into a single 
filter. Figure 12-236 illustrates this type of circuit and the 
frequency/current flow response.
Band-Stop Filter
In signal processing, a band-stop filter or band-rejection filter 
is a filter that passes most frequencies unaltered, but attenuates 
those in a range to very low levels. It is the opposite of a band-
pass filter. A notch filter is a band-stop filter with a narrow 
stopband (high Q factor). Notch filters are used in live sound 
reproduction (public address (PA) systems) and in instrument

===== PDF-side 554 =====

12-113
DC C1 R1
AC input Rectifier
Voltage across C1 with
large load circuit
Voltage across C1 with
small load circuit
L1
R1
AC input Rectifier
Load
Figure 12-228. A capacitor used as a filter.
Figure 12-229.  Half-wave and full-wave rectifier outputs using 
capacitor filter.
Figure 12-230. An inductor used as a filter. Figure 12-231. Output of an inductor filter rectifier.
amplifier (especially amplifiers or preamplifiers for acoustic 
instruments, such as acoustic guitar, mandolin, bass instrument 
amplifier, etc.) to reduce or prevent feedback, while having 
little noticeable effect on the rest of the frequency spectrum. 
Other names include “band limit filter,” “T-notch filter,” “band-
elimination filter,” and “band-rejection filter.”
Typically, the width of the stop-band is less than 1 to 2 
decades (that is, the highest frequency attenuated is less than 
10 to 100 times the lowest frequency attenuated). In the audio 
band, a notch filter uses high and low frequencies that may 
be only semitones apart.
A band-stop filter is the general case. A notch filter is a specific 
type of band-stop filter with a very narrow range. Also called 
band-elimination, band-reject, or notch filters, this kind of 
filter passes all frequencies above and below a particular 
range set by the component values. Not surprisingly, it can 
be made out of a low-pass and a high-pass filter, just like 
the band-pass design, except that this time we connect the 
two filter sections in parallel with each other instead of in 
series. Figure 12-237 illustrates this type of circuit and the 
frequency/current flow response.
Amplifier Circuits
An amplifier is a device that enables an input signal to control 
an output signal. The output signal has some or all of the 
characteristics of the input signal but generally is a greater 
magnitude than the input signal in terms of voltage, current, 
or power. Gain is the basic function of all amplifiers. Because 
of this gain, we can expect the output signal to be greater than 
the input signal. For example, if we have an input signal of 
1 volt and an output signal of 10 volts, then the gain factor 
can be determined by:
 Gain = Signal out /signal in 
 Gain = 10 V/1 V = 10
V oltage gain is usually used to describe the operation of a 
small gain amplifier. In this type of an amplifier, the output 
signal voltage is larger than the input signal voltage. Power 
gain, on the other hand, is usually used to describe the 
operation of large signal amplifiers. In the case of power gain 
amplifiers, the gain is not based on voltage but on watts. A 
power amplifier is an amplifier in which the output signal 
power is greater than the input signal power. Most power 
amplifiers are used as the final stage of amplification and 
drive the output device. The output device could be a flight 
deck or cabin speaker, an indicator, or antenna. Whatever the 
device, the power to make it work comes from the final stage 
of amplification. Drivers for autopilot servos are sometimes 
contained in line replaceable units (LRUs) called autopilot 
amplifiers. These units take the low signal commands from 
the flight guidance system and amplify the signals to a level 
usable for driving the servo motors.
Classification
The classification of a transistor amplifier circuit is 
determined by the percentage of the time that the current 
flows through the output circuit in relation to the input signal. 
There are four classifications of operation: A, AB, B, and C. 
Each class of operation has a certain use and characteristic. 
No individual class of amplifiers is considered the best. The 
best use of an amplifier is a matter of proper selection for 
the particular operation desired.

===== PDF-side 555 =====

12-114
150 V 150 V
50 V
50 V
50 V
Figure 12-233. Stacking diodes in a circuit.
A
B
C
D
C1
L-filter
Load
C1
Inverted L-filter
Load
T -filter
LoadC1
π-filter
LoadC1 C2
Figure 12-232. LC filters.
Class A
In the Class A operation, the current in the transistor 
flows for 100 percent or 360° of the input signal. 
[Figure 12-238] Class A operation is the least efficient class 
of operation but provides the best fidelity. Fidelity simply 
means that the output signal is a good reproduction of the 
input signal in all respects other than the amplitude, which is 
amplified. In some cases, there may be some phase shifting 
between the input signal and the output signal. Typically, 
the phase difference is 180°. If the output signal is not a 
good reproduction of the input signal, then the signal is said 
to be distorted. Distortion is any undesired change to the 
signal from the input to the output.
The efficiency of an amplifier refers to the amount of power 
delivered to the output compared to the power supplied to the 
circuit. Every device in the circuit consumes power in order 
to operate. If the amplifier operates for 360° of input signal, 
then it is using more power than if it was using only 180° 
of input signal. The more power consumed by the amplifier, 
the less there is available for the output signal. Usually the 
Class A amplifier is used where efficiency is of little concern 
and where fidelity in reproduction is desired.
Class AB
In the Class AB operation, the transistor current flows for more 
than 50 percent but less than 100 percent of the input signal. 
[Figure 12-239] Unlike the Class A amplifier, the output 
signal is distorted. A portion of the output circuit appears to 
be truncated. This is due to the lack of current through the 
transistor during this point of operation. When the emitter in this 
case becomes positive enough, the transistor cannot conduct 
because the base to emitter junction is no longer forward 
biased. The input signal going positive beyond this point does 
not produce any further output and the output remains level.
The Class AB amplifier has a better efficiency and a poorer 
fidelity than the Class A amplifier. These amplifiers are used 
when an exact reproduction of the input is not required but 
both the positive and negative portions of the input signals 
need to be available on the output.
Class B
In Class B operation, the transistor current flows for only 50 
percent of the input signal. [Figure 12-240] In this illustration, 
the base-emitter bias does not allow the transistor to conduct 
whenever the input signal is greater than zero. In this case, only 
the negative portion of the input signal is reproduced. Unlike 
the rectifier, the Class B amplifier does not only reproduce half 
of the input signal, but it also amplifies it. Class B amplifiers 
are twice as efficient as the Class A amplifier because the 
amplifying device only uses power for half of the input signal.
Class C
In Class C operations, transistor current flows for less than 
50 percent of the input signal. [Figure 12-241] This class of

===== PDF-side 556 =====

12-115
Low-pass filter
Load
Current
Frequency
Frequency response
High-pass filter
Load
Current
Frequency
Frequency response
Band-pass filter
Load
Band-pass filter
Load
Current
Frequency
Frequency response
Figure 12-234. Low-pass filter.
Figure 12-235. High-pass filter.
Figure 12-236. Band-pass filter.
operation is the most efficient. Because the transistor does 
not conduct except during a small portion of the input signal, 
this is the most efficient class of amplifier. The distortion of 
the Class C amplifier is greater (poor fidelity) than the Class 
A, AB, and B amplifiers because a small portion of the input 
signal is reproduced on the output. Class C amplifiers are used 
when the output signal is used for only small portions of time.
Methods of Coupling
Coupling is used to transfer a signal from one stage on an 
amplifier to another stage. Regardless of whether an amplifier 
is a single stage or one in a series of stages, there must be a 
method for the signal to enter and leave the circuit. Coupling 
is the process of transferring the energy between circuits. 
There are a number of ways for making this transfer and to 
discuss these methods in detail goes beyond the scope of this 
handbook. However, four methods are listed below with a 
brief description of their operation.
Direct Coupling
Direct coupling is the connection of the output of one stage 
directly to the input of the next stage. Direct coupling provides 
a good frequency response because no frequency-sensitive 
components, such as capacitors and inductors, are used. Yet 
this method is not used very often due to the complex power 
supply requirements and the impedance matching problems.
RC Coupling
RC coupling is the most common method of coupling and

===== PDF-side 557 =====

12-116
Band-pass filter
Load
Band-pass filter
Load
Current
Frequency
Frequency response
Figure 12-237. Band-stop filter.
uses a coupling capacitor and signal developing resistors. 
[Figure 12-242] In this circuit, R1 acts as a load resistor 
for Q1 and develops the output signal for that stage. The 
capacitor C1 blocks the DC bias signal and passes the AC 
output signal. R2 then becomes the load over which the 
passes AC signal is developed as an input to the base of Q2. 
This arrangement allows for the bias voltage of each stage to 
be blocked, while the AC signal is passed to the next stage.
Impedance Coupling
Impedance coupling uses a coil as a load for the first 
stage but otherwise functions just as an RC coupling. 
[Figure 12-243] This method is similar to the RC coupling 
method. The difference is that R1 is replaced with inductor 
L1 as the output load. The amount of signal developed on the 
output load depends on the inductive reactance of the coil. In 
order for the inductive reactance to be high, the inductance 
must be large; the frequency must be high or both. Therefore, 
load inductors should have relatively large amounts of 
inductance and are most effective at high frequencies.
Transformer Coupling
Transformer coupling uses a transformer to couple the signal 
from one stage to the next. [Figure 12-244] The transformer 
action of T1 couples the signal from the first stage to the second 
stage. The primary coil of T1 acts as a load for the output of 
the first stage while the secondary coil acts as the developing 
impedance for the second stage Q2. Transformer coupling is very 
efficient and the transformer can aid in impedance matching.
Feedback
Feedback occurs when a small portion of the output signal is 
sent back to the input signal to the amplifier. There are two 
types of feedback in amplifiers:
1. Positive (regenerative)
2. Negative (degenerative)
The main difference between these two signals is whether 
the feedback signal adds to the input signal or if the feedback 
signal diminishes the input signal. 
When the feedback is positive, the signal being returned to 
the input is in phase with the input signal and thus interferes 
constructively. Figure 12-245 illustrates this concept applied 
in the amplified circuit through a block diagram. Notice 
that the feedback signal is in phase with the input signal, 
which regenerates the input signal. This results in an output 
signal with amplitude greater than would have been without 
the constructive, positive feedback. This type of positive 
feedback is what causes an audio system to squeal.
Figure 12-245  also illustrates with a block diagram how 
negative or degenerative feedback occurs. In this case, the 
feedback signal is out of phase with the input signal. This 
causes destructive interference and degenerates the input 
signal. The result is a lower amplitude output signal than 
would have occurred without the feedback.
Operational Amplifiers (OP AMP)
An operational amplifier (OP AMP) is designed to be used 
with other circuit components and performs either computing 
functions or filtering. [Figure 12-246] Operational amplifiers 
are usually high-gain amplifiers with the amount of gain 
governed by the amount of feedback.
Operational amplifiers were originally developed for analog 
computers and used to perform mathematical functions. 
Today many devices use the operational amplifier for DC 
amplifiers, AC amplifiers, comparators, oscillators, and filter 
circuits. The widespread use is due to the fact that the OP 
AMP is a versatile device, small, and inexpensive. Built into 
the integrated chip, the operational amp is used as a basic 
building block of larger circuits.
There are two inputs to the operational amplifier, inverting (−) 
and non-inverting (+), and there is one output. The polarity

===== PDF-side 558 =====

12-117
NPN
Input
Class A amplifier
Output
VCC
VEE
+
−
−
NPN
Input
Class AB amplifier
Output
VCC
VEE
+
−
−
NPN
Input
Class B amplifier
Output
VCC
VEE
+
−
−
Figure 12-238. Simplified Class A amplifier circuit. Figure 12-239. Simplified Class AB amplifier circuit.
Figure 12-240. Simplified Class B amplifier circuit.
of a signal applied to the inverting input (−) is reversed at the 
output. A signal applied to the non-inverting (+) input retains 
its polarity on the output. To be classified as an operational 
amplifier, the circuit must have certain characteristics:
1. Very high gain
2. Very high input impedance
3. Very high output impedance
This type of a circuit can be made up of discrete components, 
such as resistors and transistors. However, the most common 
form of an operational amplifier is found in the integrated 
circuit. This integrated circuit or chip contains the various 
stages of the operational amplifier and can be treated as if it 
were a single stage.
Applications
The number of applications for OP AMPs is too numerous to 
detail in this handbook. However, the technician occasionally 
comes across these devices in modern aircraft and should be 
able to recognize their general purpose in a circuit. Some of 
the basic applications are:
1. Go/no-go detectors
2. Square wave circuits
3. Non-inverting amplifier
4. Inverting amplifier
5. Half-wave rectifier

===== PDF-side 559 =====

12-118
Input
Impedance coupled amplifier
Output
Q1
Q2C1
VCC
L1
Figure 12-243. Simplified impedance coupling circuit.
NPN
Input
Class C amplifier
Output
VCC
VEE
+
−
−
Input
RC coupled amplifier
Output
Q1
Q2C1
VCC
R1 R2
Figure 12-241. Simplified Class C amplifier circuit.
Figure 12-242. Simplified RC coupling circuit.
Magnetic Amplifiers
Magnetic amplifiers do not amplify magnetism but use 
electromagnetism to amplify a signal. Essentially, the 
magnetic amplifier is a power amplifier with a very limited 
frequency response. The frequency range most commonly 
associated with the magnetic amplifier is 100 Hz and less, 
which places it in the audio range. As a technical point, the 
magnetic amplifier is a low-frequency amplifier.
Advantages of the magnetic amplifier are:
1. Very high efficiency, on the order of approximately 
90 percent
2. High reliability
3. Very rugged, able to withstand vibrations, moisture, 
and overloads
4. No warm-up time
Some of the disadvantages of the magnetic amplifier are:
1. Incapacity to handle low-voltage signals
2. Not usable in high-frequency applications
3. Time delay associated with magnetic affects
4. Poor fidelity
The basic operating principles of the magnetic amplifier are 
fairly simple. Keep in mind that all amplifiers are current 
control devices. In this particular case, power that is delivered 
to the load is controlled by a variable inductance.
If an AC voltage is applied to the primary winding of an 
iron core transformer, the iron core is magnetized and 
demagnetized at the same frequency as that of the applied 
voltage. This, in turn, induces a voltage in the transformers 
secondary winding. The output voltage across the terminals 
of the secondary depends on the relationship of the number 
of turns in the primary and the secondary of the transformer.
The iron core of the transformer has a saturation point 
after which the application of a greater magnetic force 
produces no change in the intensity of magnetization. 
Hence, there is no change in transformer output, even if the 
input is greatly increased. The magnetic amplifier circuit 
in Figure 12-247 is used to explain how a simple magnetic 
amplifier functions.
1. Assume that there is 1 ampere of current in coil A, 
which has 10 turns of wire. If coil B has 10 turns of 
wire, an output of 1 ampere is obtained if coil B is 
properly loaded.
2. By applying direct current to coil C, the core of the 
magnetic amplifier coil can be further magnetized. 
Assume that coil C has the proper number of turns and, 
upon the application of 30 milliamperes, that the core

===== PDF-side 560 =====

12-119
Input
Transformer coupled amplifier
Output
Q1
Q2T1
VCC
Input
Positive feedback
Negative feedback
Output
Input Output
Figure 12-244. Simplified transformer coupling circuit.
Figure 12-245. Feedback.
is magnetized to the point where 1 ampere on coil A 
results in only 0.24 ampere output from coil B.
3. By making the DC input to coil C a continuous variable 
from 0 to 30 milliamperes and by maintaining an 
input of 1 ampere on coil A, it is possible to control 
the output of coil B to any point between 0.24 ampere 
and 1 ampere in this example.
The term “amplifier” is used for this arrangement because, 
by use of a few milliamperes, control of an output of 1 or 
more amperes is obtained.
Saturable-Core Reactor
The same procedure can be used with the circuit shown 
in Figure 12-248. A saturable-core reactor is a magnetic-
core coil whose reactance is controlled by changing the 
permeability of the core. Varying the unidirectional flux 
controls the permeability of the core.
By controlling the extent of magnetization of the iron ring, 
it is possible to control the amount of current flowing to 
the load, since the amount of magnetization controls the 
impedance of the AC input winding. This type of magnetic 
amplifier is called a simple saturable reactor circuit.
Adding a rectifier to such a circuit would remove half the 
cycle of the AC input and permit DC to flow to the load. The 
amount of DC flowing in the load circuit is controlled by a 
DC control winding (sometimes referred to as bias). This type 
of magnetic amplifier is referred to as being self-saturating.
To use the full AC input power, a circuit such as that shown 
in Figure 12-249 may be used. This circuit uses a full-wave 
bridge rectifier. The load receives a controlled DC by using 
the full AC input. This type of circuit is known as a self-
saturating, full-wave magnetic amplifier.
In Figure 12-250, it is assumed that the DC control winding 
is supplied by a variable source, such as a sensing circuit. To 
control such a source and use its variations to control the AC 
output, it is necessary to include another DC winding that has 
a constant value. This winding, referred to as the reference 
winding, magnetizes the magnetic core in one direction.
The DC control winding, acting in opposition to the reference 
winding, either increases (degenerative) or decreases 
(regenerative) the magnetization of the core to change the 
amount of current flowing through the load. This is essentially 
a basic preamplifier.
Logic Circuits
Logic is considered the science of reasoning—the development 
of a reasonable conclusion based on known information. 
Human reasoning tells us that certain propositions are true if 
certain conditions or premises are true. An annunciator being 
lit in the master warning panel is an example of a proposition, 
which is either true or false. For example, predetermined and 
designed conditions must be met in order for an annunciator 
in a master warning panel to be lit. A “LOW HYDRAULIC 
PRESS” annunciator may have a simple set of conditions 
that cause it to be illuminated. If the conditions are met, such 
as a hydraulic reservoir that is low on fluid causing the line 
press to be low, then the logic is true and the annunciator 
lights. Several propositions, when combined, form a logical 
function. In the example above, the “LOW HYDRAULIC 
PRESS” annunciator is on if the LED is not burned out and 
the hydraulic press is low or if the LED is not burned out 
and the annunciator test is being asserted.
This section on logic circuits only serves as an introduction 
to the basic concepts. The technician encounters many

===== PDF-side 561 =====

12-120
Inputs
Power supply requirements
Output
+VCC
−VEE
+VCC
−VEE
−
+
Inputs Output
−
+
Inputs Output
−
+
Input/output requirements
Feedback
Figure 12-246. Schematic symbol for the operational amplifier.
situations or problems in everyday life that can be expressed 
in some form of a logical function. Many problems and 
situations can be condensed down to simple yes⁄no or 
true⁄false statements that, if logically ordered, can filter 
a problem down to a reasonable answer. The digital logic 
circuits are well suited for this task and have been employed 
in today’s integrated circuits found in virtually all of the 
devices that we take for granted in modern aircraft. These 
logical circuits are used to carry out the logical functions for 
such things as navigation and communications. There are 
several fundamental elements that form the building blocks 
of the complex digital systems found in line replaceable 
units (LRUs) and avionics card cages. The following is 
a very basic outline of what those elements are and what 
logic conditions they process. It is far beyond the scope of 
this handbook to cover digital logic systems due to the vast 
body of knowledge that it represents. However, this serves 
as an introduction and, in some limited cases, is useful in 
reading system block diagrams that use logic symbols to aid 
the technician in understanding how a given circuit operates.
Logic Polarity
Electrical pulses can represent two logic conditions and 
any two differing voltages can be used for this purpose. For 
example, a positive voltage pulse could represent a true or 1 
condition and a negative voltage pulse could then represent a 
false or 0 logic condition. The condition in which the voltage 
changes to represent a true or 1 logic is known as the logic 
polarity. Logic circuits are usually divided into two broad 
classes: positive polarity and negative polarity. The voltage 
levels used and a statement indicating the use of positive 
or negative logic is usually specified in the logic diagrams 
provided by the original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).
Positive
When a signal that activates a circuit to a 1, true or high 
condition, has an electrical level that is relatively more 
positive than the other 0 or false condition, then the logic 
polarity is said to be positive. An example would be:
Active State: 1 or True = +5 volts direct current (VDC)
 0 or False = −5 VDC
Negative
When the signal that actives a circuit to a 1, true or high 
condition, has an electrical level that is relatively more 
negative than the other 0 or false condition, then the logic 
polarity is said to be negative. An example would be:
Active State: 1 or True = 0 VDC
                      0 or False = +5 VDC
Pulse Structure
Figure 12-251 illustrates the positive and negative pulse in an 
idealized form. In both forms, the pulse is composed of two 
edges—one being the leading edge and the other the trailing 
edge. In the case of the positive pulse logic, the positive 
transition from a lower state to a higher state is the leading 
edge and the trailing edge is the opposite. In the case of the 
negative logic pulse, the negative transition from a higher 
state to a lower state is the leading edge while the rise from 
the lower state back to the higher state is the trailing edge.
Figure 12-251 is considered an ideal pulse because the rise 
and fall times are instantaneous. In reality, these changes 
take time, although in actual practice, the rise and fall can 
be assumed as instantaneous. Figure 12-252 shows the non-
ideal pulse and its characteristics. The time required for a 
pulse to go from a low state to a high state is called the rise

===== PDF-side 562 =====

12-121
AC input AC output
DC
A B
C
Load
AC
input
DC 
Load
AC
DC 
Figure 12-247. Magnetic amplifier circuit.
Figure 12-248. Saturable CORE reactor circuit. Figure 12-249. Self-saturating, full-wave magnetic amplifier.
time, and the time required for the pulse to return to zero is 
called the fall time. It is common practice to measure the rise 
and fall time between 10 percent amplitude and 90 percent 
amplitude. The reason for taking the measurements in these 
points is due to the non-linear shape of the pulse in the first 
10 percent and final 90 percent of the rise and fall amplitudes. 
The pulse width is defined as the duration of the pulse. To be 
more specific, it is the time between the 50 percent amplitude 
point on both the pulse rise and fall.
Basic Logic Circuits
Boolean logic is a symbolic system used in representing the 
truth value of statements. It is employed in the binary system 
used by digital computers primarily because the only truth 
values (true and false) can be represented by the binary digits 
1 and 0. A circuit in computer memory can be open or closed, 
depending on the value assigned to it. The fundamental 
operations of Boolean logic, often called Boolean operators, 
are “and,” “or,” and “not;” combinations of these make up 13 
other Boolean operators. Six of these operators are discussed.
The Inverter Logic
The inverter circuit performs a basic logic function called 
inversion. The purpose of the inverter is to convert one logic 
state into the opposite state. In terms of a binary digit, this 
would be like converting a 1 to a 0 or a 0 to a 1. When a 
high voltage is applied to the inverter input, low voltage is 
the output. When a low voltage is applied to the input, a high 
voltage is on the output. This operation can be put into what 
is known as a logic or truth table. The standard logic symbol 
is shown in Figure 12-253. Figure 12-254 shows the possible 
logic states for this gate. This is the common symbol for an 
amplifier with a small circle on the output. This type of logic 
can also be considered a NOT gate.
The AND Gate
The AND gate is made up of two or more inputs and a single 
output. The logic symbol is shown in Figure 12-255. Inputs 
are on the left and the output is on the right in each of the 
depictions. Gates with two, three, and four inputs are shown; 
however, any number of inputs can be used in the AND logic 
as long as the number is greater than one. The operation of 
the AND gate is such that the output is high only when all 
of the inputs are high. If any of the inputs are low, the output 
is also low. Therefore, the basic purpose of an AND gate is 
to determine when certain conditions have been met at the 
same time. A high level on all inputs produces a high level 
on the output. Figure 12-256 shows a simplified diagram of 
the AND logic with two switches and a light bulb. Notice that 
both switches need to be closed in order for the light bulb to 
turn on. Any other combination of switch positions is an open 
circuit and the light does not turn on. An example of AND 
logic could possibly be engage logic found in an autopilot. In 
this case, the autopilot would not be allowed to be engaged 
unless certain conditions are first met. Such conditions could 
be: Vertical gyro is valid AND directional gyro is valid AND 
all autopilot control knobs are in detents AND servo circuits 
are operational. Only when these conditions are met does the

===== PDF-side 563 =====

12-122
Load
AC
DC Ref
DC 
Control
Figure 12-250. Basic preamplifier circuit.
autopilot engage. [Figure 12-257] 
The OR Gate
The OR gate has two or more inputs and one output and 
is normally represented by the standard logic symbol and 
truth table. [Figure 12-258] Note that the OR gate can have 
any number of inputs as long as it is greater than one. The 
operation of the OR gate is such that a high on any one of 
the inputs produces a high on the output. The only time that a 
low is produced on the output is if there are no high levels on 
any input. Figure 12-259 is a simplified circuit that illustrates 
the OR logic. The example used is a “DOOR UNSAFE” 
annunciator. Let’s say in this case that the plane has one 
cabin door and a baggage door. In order for the annunciator 
light on the master warning panel to extinguish, both doors 
must be closed and locked. If any one of the doors is not 
secured properly, the baggage door OR the cabin door, then 
the “DOOR UNSAFE” annunciator illuminates. In this case, 
two switches are in parallel with each other. If either one of 
the two switches is closed, the light bulb lights up. The lamp 
is off only when both switches are open.
The NAND Gate
The term NAND is a combination of the NOT-AND gate 
and indicates an AND function with an inverted output. A 
standard logic symbol for a two input NAND gate is shown 
in Figure 12-260. Notice that an equivalent AND gate with 
an inverter is also shown. The logical operation of the NAND 
gate is such that a low output occurs only if all inputs are high. 
If any of the inputs are low, the output is high. An example 
of a two input NAND gate and its corresponding truth table 
are shown in Figure 12-261.
The NOR Gate
The term NOR is a combination of the NOT and OR and 
indicates an OR function with an inverted output. The 
standard logic symbol for a two-inputs NOR gate is shown 
in Figure 12-263. Notice that an equivalent AND gate with 
an inverter is also shown. The logical operation of the NOR 
gate is such that a low output happens when any of its inputs 
are high. Only when all of its inputs are low is the output 
high. The logic of this gate produces resultant outputs that 
are the opposite of the OR gate. In the NOR gate, the low 
output is the active output level. Figure 12-263 illustrates 
the logical operation of a two-input NOR gate for all of its 
possible combinations and the truth table.
Exclusive OR Gate
The exclusive OR gate is a modified OR gate that produces a 
1 output when only one of the inputs is a 1. The abbreviation 
often used is X-OR. It is different from the standard OR gate 
in that when both inputs are a 1, then the output remains at 
a 0. The standard symbol and truth table for the X-OR gate 
are shown in Figure 12-264.
Exclusive NOR Gate
The exclusive NOR (X-NOR) gate is nothing more than an 
X-OR gate with an inverted output. It produces a 1 output 
when all inputs are 1s and also when all inputs are 0s. The 
standard symbol is shown in Figure 12-265.
The Integrated Circuit
All of the logic functions so far discussed plus many other 
components are available in some form of an integrated 
circuit. The digital systems found in today’s aircraft owe 
their existence to a large extent to the design of the integrated 
circuit (IC). In most cases, the IC has an advantage over the 
use of discrete components in that they are smaller, consume 
less power, are very reliable, and are inexpensive. The most 
noticeable characteristic of the IC is its size and in comparison 
to the discrete semiconductor component, can easily be on 
the order of thousands of times smaller. [Figure 12-266]\
A monolithic integrated circuit is an electronic circuit 
that is constructed entirely on a single chip or wafer of 
semiconductor material. All of the discrete components, 
such as resistors, transistors, diodes, and capacitors, can 
be constructed on these small pieces of semiconductor 
material and are an integral part of the chip. There are 
a number of levels of integration. Those levels are: 
small-scale integration, medium-scale integration, large-
scale integration, and microprocessors. The small-scale 
integration is considered the least complex design of 
the digital ICs. These ICs contain the basic components, 
such as the AND, OR, NOT, NOR and NAND gates. 
[Figure 12-267] The medium-scale integration can contain

===== PDF-side 564 =====

12-123
High
Leading
edge
Low
Trailing
edge
Positive logic pulse
Negative logic pulse
Trailing
edge
High
Leading
edge
Low
Pulse width
Pulse characteristic from a databus
Rise
time
50% 5 V
Pulse
amplitude
(10 volts)
90% 9 V
10% 1 V
Fall
time
Input = 1
(High)
Output = 0
(Low)
A
X
X
X
B
A
B
A
B
C
C
D
Input Output
High
Low
Low
High
Figure 12-251. Positive and negative pulse in an idealized form.
Figure 12-252. Non-ideal pulse and its characteristics.
Figure 12-253. Standard logic symbol.
Figure 12-255. AND gate logic symbol.
Figure 12-254. Possible logic states.
the same components as found in the small-scale design but 
in larger numbers ranging from 12 to 100. The medium-
scale designs are house circuits that are more complex, such 
as encoders, decoders, registers, counters, multiplexers, 
smaller memories, and arithmetic circuits. [Figure 12-268] 
The large-scale integrated circuits contain even more logic 
gates, larger memories than the medium-scale circuits, and 
in some cases microprocessors.
Microprocessors
The microprocessor is a device that can be programmed 
to perform arithmetic and logical operations and other 
functions in a preordered sequence. The microprocessor is 
usually used as the central processing unit (CPU) in today’s 
computer systems when it is connected to other components, 
such as memory chips and input/output circuits. The basic 
arrangement and design of the circuits residing in the 
microprocessor is called the architecture.
DC Generators
Theory of Operation
In the study of alternating current, basic generator principles 
were introduced to explain the generation of an AC voltage 
by a coil rotating in a magnetic field. Since this is the basis 
for all generator operation, it is necessary to review the 
principles of generation of electrical energy.
When lines of magnetic force are cut by a conductor passing 
through them, voltage is induced in the conductor. The 
strength of the induced voltage is dependent upon the speed 
of the conductor and the strength of the magnetic field. If 
the ends of the conductor are connected to form a complete 
circuit, a current is induced in the conductor. The conductor 
and the magnetic field make up an elementary generator.
This simple generator is illustrated in Figure 12-269 , 
together with the components of an external generator

===== PDF-side 565 =====

12-124
Ahrs
+28 vdc
Ahrs
+28 vdc
A/p controller
+28 vdc
+28 vdc
+28 vdc
+28 vdc
+28 vdc
+28 vdc
+28 vdc
+28 vdc
+28 vdc
Pitch servo
valid +28
Roll servo
valid +28
Yaw damper
valid +28
Trim servo
valid +28
Attitude valid +28
Heading valid +28
Attitude/heading
reference system
(Ahrs)
Autopilot
computer
(engage circuit)
Autopilot controller
Pitch wheel centered
Turn knob centered
When all input circuits are valid,
then the a/p can be engaged
Autopilot Engage Logic
+28 vdc
Figure 12-257. AND logic of system found in the aircraft wiring diagrams.
OR gate input/output
Truth table
A
f = A + B
B
A
0
1
0
1
B
0
0
1
1
f
0
1
1
1
Figure 12-258. OR gate.
A B
+
−
A B
+
−
Figure 12-256. Simplified diagram of the AND logic.
circuit which collect and use the energy produced by the 
simple generator. The loop of wire [Figure 12-269A and B] 
is arranged to rotate in a magnetic field. When the plane of 
the loop of wire is parallel to the magnetic lines of force, 
the voltage induced in the loop causes a current to flow in 
the direction indicated by the arrows in Figure 12-269. The 
voltage induced at this position is maximum, since the wires 
are cutting the lines of force at right angles, thus cutting 
more lines of force per second than in any other position 
relative to the magnetic field. As the loop approaches the 
vertical position shown in Figure 12-270 , the induced 
voltage decreases because both sides of the loop (A and B) 
are approximately parallel to the lines of force and the rate 
of cutting is reduced. When the loop is vertical, no lines 
of force are cut since the wires are momentarily traveling 
parallel to the magnetic lines of force, and there is no 
induced voltage. As the rotation of the loop continues, the 
number of lines of force cut increases until the loop has 
rotated an additional 90° to a horizontal plane. As shown 
in Figure 12-271, the number of lines of force cut and the 
induced voltage once again are maximum. The direction 
of cutting, however, is in the opposite direction to that 
occurring in Figures 12-269  and 12-270, so the direction 
(polarity) of the induced voltage is reversed. As rotation 
of the loop continues, the number of lines of force having 
been cut again decreases, and the induced voltage becomes 
zero at the position shown in Figure 12-272, since the wires 
A and B are again parallel to the magnetic lines of force.
If the voltage induced throughout the entire 360° of rotation

===== PDF-side 566 =====

12-125
A
F
B
NAND gate
A (1)
(0)
(0)
(1)
F
B
A
F
B
Equivalent circuit NAND gate input/output
0
1
0
NAND gate input/output
NAND gate truth table
0
1
1
1
1
0
1
0
1
A
0
1
0
1
B
0
0
1
1
f
1
1
1
0
OR gate input/output
Truth table
A
f = A + B
B
A
0
1
0
1
B
0
0
1
1
f
0
1
1
1
Door
unsafe
Door warn
Light on
Cabin door not secured
Baggage door secured+28 VDC
Door
unsafe
Door warn
Light off
Cabin door secured
Baggage door secured+28 VDC
Figure 12-260. Standard logic symbol for two input NAND gate.
Figure 12-261. Two input NAND gate and corresponding truth table.
Figure 12-262. Standard logic symbol for two inputs OR gate.
Figure 12-259. Simplified circuit that illustrates OR logic.
is plotted, the curve shown in  Figure 12-273  results. This 
voltage is called an alternating voltage because of its reversal 
from positive to negative value, first in one direction and 
then in the other.
To use the voltage generated in the loop for producing a current 
flow in an external circuit, some means must be provided to 
connect the loop of wire in series with the external circuit. 
Such an electrical connection can be effected by opening the 
loop of wire and connecting its two ends to two metal rings, 
called slip rings, against which two metal or carbon brushes 
ride. The brushes are connected to the external circuit. By 
replacing the slip rings of the basic AC generator with two 
half cylinders, called a commutator, a basic DC generator is 
obtained. [Figure 12-274] In this illustration, the black side of 
the coil is connected to the black segment, and the white side 
of the coil to the white segment. The segments are insulated 
from each other. The two stationary brushes are placed on 
opposite sides of the commutator and are so mounted that each 
brush contacts each segment of the commutator as the latter 
revolves simultaneously with the loop. The rotating parts of a 
DC generator (coil and commutator) are called an armature. 
The generation of an emf by the loop rotating in the magnetic 
field is the same for both AC and DC generators, but the action 
of the commutator produces a DC voltage.
Generation of a DC Voltage
Figure 12-275  illustrates in an elementary, step-by-step 
manner, how a DC voltage is generated. This is accomplished 
by showing a single wire loop rotating through a series of 
positions within a magnetic field.
Position A
The loop starts in position A and is rotating clockwise. 
However, no lines of force are cut by the coil sides, 
which means that no emf is generated. The black brush is 
shown coming into contact with the black segment of the 
commutator, and the white brush is just coming into contact 
with the white segment.

===== PDF-side 567 =====

12-126
X-NOR gate input/output Truth table
A
f = A + B 0f 0 0
B
T0 T1 T2 T3 T4
1
A
0
0
1
1
B
0
1
0
1
f
1
0
0
1
0
A
1 0
T0 T1 T2 T3 T4
1
0
B
0 1 1
Figure 12-265. Standard Symbol for X-NOR gate.
X-OR gate input/output Truth table
A
f 0
f
1 0 0
B
T0 T1 T2 T3 T4 T5
1
A
0
0
1
1
B
0
1
0
1
f
0
1
1
0
0
A
1 0 0
T0 T1 T2 T3 T4 T4
1
0
B
0 0 1 1
Figure 12-264. Standard symbol and truth table for X-OR gate.
NOR gate input/output
NOR gate truth table
0
1
0
0
0
1
A
0
0
1
1
B
0
1
0
1
f
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
1
Figure 12-263. Logical operation of two-input NOR gate and truth 
table.
Position B
In position B, the flux is now being cut at a maximum rate, 
which means that the induced emf is maximum. At this time, 
the black brush is contacting the black segment, and the 
white brush is contacting the white segment. The deflection 
of the meter is toward the right, indicating the polarity of 
the output voltage.
Position C
At position C, the loop has completed 180° of rotation. Like 
position A, no flux lines are being cut and the output voltage 
is zero. The important condition to observe at position C is 
the action of the segments and brushes. The black brush at the 
180° angle is contacting both black and white segments on 
one side of the commutator, and the white brush is contacting 
both segments on the other side of the commutator. After the

===== PDF-side 568 =====

12-127
Typical integrated logic circuit
0.280" max
0.200" max
0.785" max
16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
4Y 4A 4B GND 3A 3B 3Y
1Y 1A 1B VCC 2A 2B 2Y
14
 13
 12
 11
 10
 9
 8
1
 2
 3
 4
 5
 6
 7
Quad exclusive-OR circuit
Input Output
A
0
0
1
1
Y
0
1
1
0
B
0
1
0
1
1Q 2Q 2Q Enable Gnd 3Q 3Q 4Q
1Q 1D 2D Enable Vcc 3D 4D 4Q
16
 15
 14
 13
 12
 11
 10
 9
1
 2
 3
 4
 5
 6
 7
 8
DQ
G
Q
QD
Q
G
DQ
G
Q
QD
Q
G
D-register
Figure 12-266. Integrated circuit.
Figure 12-267. Small-scale integration schematic form.
Figure 12-268. Medium-scale integration schematic form.
loop rotates slightly past the 180° point, the black brush is 
contacting only the white segment, and the white brush is 
contacting only the black segment.
Because of this switching of commutator elements, the 
black brush is always in contact with the coil side moving 
downward, and the white brush is always in contact with the 
coil side moving upward. Though the current actually reverses 
its direction in the loop in exactly the same way as in the AC 
generator, commutator action causes the current to flow always 
in the same direction through the external circuit or meter.
Position D
At position D, commutator action reverses the current in 
the external circuit, and the second half cycle has the same 
waveform as the first half cycle. The process of commutation 
is sometimes called rectification, since rectification is the 
converting of AC voltage to DC voltage.
The Neutral Plane
At the instant that each brush is contacting two segments on 
the commutator [Figure 12-275A, C, and E], a direct short 
circuit is produced. If an emf were generated in the loop at 
this time, a high current would flow in the circuit, causing 
an arc and thus damaging the commutator. For this reason, 
the brushes must be placed in the exact position where the 
short occurs when the generated emf is zero. This position is 
called the neutral plane. If the brushes are installed properly, 
no sparking occurs between the brushes and the commutator. 
Sparking is an indication of improper brush placement, which 
is the main cause of improper commutation.
The voltage generated by the basic DC generator in 
Figure 12-275 varies from zero to its maximum value twice 
for each revolution of the loop. This variation of DC voltage 
is called “ripple,” and may be reduced by using more loops, 
or coils, as shown in Figure 12-276A. As the number of loops 
is increased, the variation between maximum and minimum 
values of voltage is reduced [Figure 12-276B], and the output 
voltage of the generator approaches a steady DC value. In 
Figure 12-276A,  the number of commutator segments is 
increased in direct proportion to the number of loops; that

===== PDF-side 569 =====

12-128
N
S
A
B
N
S
B
A
Figure 12-271. Inducing maximum voltage in the opposite direction.
Figure 12-272.  Inducing a minimum voltage in the opposite 
direction.
N
S
A
Armature
B
Load
Slip ring
Pole piece
Brush
N
S
A
B
Figure 12-269.  Inducing maximum voltage in an elementary 
generator.
Figure 12-270.  Inducing minimum voltage in an elementary 
generator.
is, there are two segments for one loop, four segments for 
two loops, and eight segments for four loops.
The voltage induced in a single turn loop is small. Increasing 
the number of loops does not increase the maximum value 
of generated voltage, but increasing the number of turns 
in each loop increases this value. Within narrow limits, 
the output voltage of a DC generator is determined by the 
product of the number of turns per loop, the total flux per 
pair of poles in the machine, and the speed of rotation of 
the armature.
An AC generator, or alternator, and a DC generator are 
identical as far as the method of generating voltage in the 
rotating loop is concerned. However, if the current is taken 
from the loop by slip rings, it is an alternating current, and 
the generator is called an AC generator, or alternator. If the 
current is collected by a commutator, it is direct current, and 
the generator is called a DC generator.
Construction Features of DC Generators 
Generators used on aircraft may differ somewhat in design, 
since various manufacturers make them. All, however, are of 
the same general construction and operate similarly. The major 
parts, or assemblies, of a DC generator are a field frame (or 
yoke), a rotating armature, and a brush assembly. The parts 
of a typical aircraft generator are shown in Figure 12-277.
Field Frame
The field frame is also called the yoke, which is the 
foundation or frame for the generator. The frame has two 
functions: It completes the magnetic circuit between the 
poles and acts as a mechanical support for the other parts of 
the generator. In Figure 12-278A, the frame for a two-pole 
generator is shown in a cross-sectional view. A four-pole 
generator frame is shown in Figure 12-278B.

===== PDF-side 570 =====

12-129
– Voltage + Voltage
Maximum
Minimum
0°
Maximum
90° 270°
360°
360° 1 cycle
180°
 S N
Induced EMF
1 Revolution
A EB C D
Figure 12-273. Output of an elementary generator.
Figure 12-274. Basic DC generator.
Figure 12-275. Operation of a basic DC generator.
In small generators, the frame is made of one piece of iron, 
but in larger generators, it is usually made up of two parts 
bolted together. The frame has high magnetic properties and, 
together with the pole pieces, forms the major part of the 
magnetic circuit. The field poles are bolted to the inside of 
the frame and form a core on which the field coil windings 
are mounted. [Figure 12-278] 
The poles are usually laminated to reduce eddy current 
losses and serve the same purpose as the iron core of an 
electromagnet; that is, they concentrate the lines of force 
produced by the field coils. The entire frame, including field 
poles, is made from high-quality magnetic iron or sheet steel.
A practical DC generator uses electromagnets instead of 
permanent magnets. To produce a magnetic field of the 
necessary strength with permanent magnets would greatly 
increase the physical size of the generator.
The field coils are made up of many turns of insulated wire 
and are usually wound on a form that fits over the iron core of 
the pole to which it is securely fastened. [Figure 12-279] The 
exciting current, which is used to produce the magnetic field 
and which flows through the field coils, is obtained from an 
external source or from the generated DC of the machine. 
No electrical connection exists between the windings of the 
field coils and the pole pieces.
Most field coils are connected so that the poles show 
alternate polarity. Since there is always one North pole for 
each South pole, there must always be an even number of 
poles in any generator.
Note that the pole pieces in Figure 12-278 project from the 
frame. Because air offers a great amount of reluctance to the 
magnetic field, this design reduces the length of the air gap 
between the poles and the rotating armature and increases the 
efficiency of the generator. When the pole pieces are made to 
project they are called salient poles. [Figure 12-278]

===== PDF-side 571 =====

12-130
A B C D E
0 1/4 1/2 3/4 1Induced EMF
Revolutions
S N
A
B
Figure 12-276. Increasing the number of coils reduces the ripple 
in the voltage.
Armature
The armature assembly of a generator consists of many 
armature coils wound on an iron core, a commutator, and 
associated mechanical parts. These additional loops of wire 
are actually called windings and are evenly spaced around 
the armature so that the distance between each winding is 
the same. Mounted on a shaft, it rotates through the magnetic 
field produced by the field coils. The core of the armature acts 
as an iron conductor in the magnetic field and, for this reason, 
is laminated to prevent the circulation of eddy currents.
Gramme-Ring Armature
There are two general kinds of armatures: the ring and the 
drum. Figure 12-280 shows a ring-type armature made up of 
an iron core, an eight-section winding, and an eight-segment 
commutator. The disadvantage of this arrangement is that 
the windings, located on the inner side of the iron ring, cut 
few lines of flux. As a result, they have very little voltage 
induced in them. For this reason, the Gramme ring armature 
is not widely used.
Drum-Type Armature
A drum-type armature is shown in Figure 12-281 . The 
armature core is in the shape of a drum and has slots cut into 
it where the armature windings are placed. The advantage is 
that each winding completely surrounds the core so that the 
entire length of the conductor cuts through the magnetic flux. 
The total induced voltage in this arrangement is far greater 
than that of the Gramme ring-type armature.
Drum-type armatures are usually constructed in one of 
two methods: lap winding and the wave winding. Each 
method having its own advantage. Lap windings are used in 
generators that are designed for high current. The windings 
are connected in parallel paths and for this reason require 
several brushes. The wave winding is used in generators that 
are designed for high voltage outputs. The two ends of each 
coil are connected to commutator segments separated by the 
distance between poles. This results in a series arrangement 
of the coils and is additive of all the induced voltages.
Commutators
Figure 12-282  shows a cross-sectional view of a typical 
commutator. The commutator is located at the end of an 
armature and consists of wedge shaped segments of hard drawn 
copper, insulated from each other by thin sheets of mica. The 
segments are held in place by steel V-rings or clamping flanges 
fitted with bolts. Rings of mica insulate the segments from the 
flanges. The raised portion of each segment is called a riser, 
and the leads from the armature coils are soldered to the risers. 
When the segments have no risers, the leads are soldered to 
short slits in the ends of the segments.
The brushes ride on the surface of the commutator, forming 
the electrical contact between the armature coils and the 
external circuit. A flexible, braided copper conductor, 
commonly called a pigtail, connects each brush to the external 
circuit. The brushes, usually made of high-grade carbon and 
held in place by brush holders insulated from the frame, are 
free to slide up and down in their holders in order to follow 
any irregularities in the surface of the commutator. The 
brushes are usually adjustable so that the pressure of the 
brushes on the commutator can be varied and the position 
of the brushes with respect to the segments can be adjusted.
The constant making and breaking of connections to the coils 
in which a voltage is being induced necessitates the use of 
material for brushes, which has a definite contact resistance. 
Also, this material must be such that the friction between the 
commutator and the brush is low, to prevent excessive wear. 
For these reasons, the material commonly used for brushes is 
high-grade carbon. The carbon must be soft enough to prevent 
undue wear of the commutator and yet hard enough to provide 
reasonable brush life. Since the contact resistance of carbon 
is fairly high, the brush must be quite large to provide a large 
area of contact. The commutator surface is highly polished to 
reduce friction as much as possible. Oil or grease must never 
be used on a commutator, and extreme care must be used 
when cleaning it to avoid marring or scratching the surface.

===== PDF-side 572 =====

12-131
Connector ligs
Field frame Drive end frame
Sealed ball bearings
Drive shaft
Field windingScrewPole shoeBrush and holder
Steel ring
Commutator
Brush connector bars
Air scoop
Armature
Drive end
Field frame
Commutator
end frame
Figure 12-277. Typical 24-volt aircraft generator.
Armature Reaction
Current flowing through the armature sets up electromagnetic 
fields in the windings. These new fields tend to distort or 
bend the magnetic flux between the poles of the generator 
from a straight-line path. Since armature current increases 
with load, the distortion becomes greater with an increase in 
load. This distortion of the magnetic field is called armature 
reaction. [Figure 12-283]
Armature windings of a generator are spaced so that, during 
rotation of the armature, there are certain positions when the 
brushes contact two adjacent segments, thereby shorting the 
armature windings to these segments. When the magnetic 
field is not distorted, there is usually no voltage being 
induced in the shorted windings, and therefore no harmful 
results occur from the shorting of the windings. However, 
when the field is distorted, a voltage is induced in these 
shorted windings, and sparking takes place between the 
brushes and the commutator segments. Consequently, the 
commutator becomes pitted, the wear on the brushes becomes 
excessive, and the output of the generator is reduced. To 
correct this condition, the brushes are set so that the plane of 
the coils, which are shorted by the brushes, is perpendicular 
to the distorted magnetic field, which is accomplished by 
moving the brushes forward in the direction of rotation. This 
operation is called shifting the brushes to the neutral plane 
or plane of commutation. The neutral plane is the position 
where the plane of the two opposite coils is perpendicular 
to the magnetic field in the generator. On a few generators, 
the brushes can be shifted manually ahead of the normal 
neutral plane to the neutral plane caused by field distortion. 
On nonadjustable brush generators, the manufacturer sets 
the brushes for minimum sparking.
Compensating windings or interpoles may be used to 
counteract some of the effects of field distortion, since 
shifting the brushes is inconvenient and unsatisfactory, 
especially when the speed and load of the generator are 
changing constantly.
Compensating Windings
The compensating windings consist of a series of coils 
embedded in slots in the pole faces. These coils are also 
connected in series with the armature. Consequently, this series 
connection with the armature produces a magnetic field in the 
compensating windings that varies directly with the armature 
current. The compensating windings are wound in such a 
manner that the magnetic field produced by them counteracts 
the magnetic field produced by the armature. As a result, the 
neutral plane remains stationary any magnitude of armature 
current. With this design, once the brushes are set correctly, 
they do not need to be moved again. Figure 12-284A illustrates 
how the windings are set into the pole faces.

===== PDF-side 573 =====

12-132
N S
Figure 12-280. An eight-section, ring-type armature.
N S
N N
S
S
A
B
Flux
Pole
Field winding
Frame
Flux
Pole
Field winding
Frame
Figure 12-278. A two-pole and a four-pole frame assembly.
Figure 12-279. A field coil removed from a field pole.
Interpoles
An interpole is a pole placed between the main poles of a 
generator. An example of interpole placement is shown in 
Figure 12-284B. This is a simple two-pole generator with 
two interpoles.
An interpole has the same polarity as the next main pole in 
the direction of rotation. The magnetic flux produced by 
an interpole causes the current in the armature to change 
direction as an armature winding passes under it. This 
cancels the electromagnetic fields about the armature 
windings. The magnetic strength of the interpoles varies with 
the load on the generator; and since field distortion varies 
with the load, the magnetic field of the interpoles counteracts 
the effects of the field set up around the armature windings 
and minimizes field distortion. Thus, the interpole tends to 
keep the neutral plane in the same position for all loads on 
the generator; therefore, field distortion is reduced by the 
interpoles, and the efficiency, output, and service life of the 
brushes are improved.
Types of DC Generators
There are three types of DC generators: series wound, shunt 
wound, and shunt series or compound wound. The difference 
in type depends on the relationship of the field winding to 
the external circuit.
Series Wound DC Generators
The field winding of a series generator is connected in series 
with the external circuit called the load. [Figure 12-285] The 
field coils are composed of a few turns of large wire; the 
magnetic field strength depends more on the current flow rather 
than the number of turns in the coil. Series generators have very 
poor voltage regulation under changing load, since the greater 
the current through the field coils to the external circuit, the 
greater the induced emf and the greater the terminal or output 
voltage. Therefore, when the load is increased, the voltage 
increases; likewise, when the load is decreased, the voltage

===== PDF-side 574 =====

12-133
Mica V-ring
Front V-ring
Commutator bar
Mica
Iron shell
Back V-ring with mica inner and outer rings for insulationSlots
Tightening nut
Iron ring
Commutator bars
Mica insulation between bars
Commutator Slots
Shaft
Coils
Figure 12-282. Commutator with portion removed to show construction.
Figure 12-281. A drum-type armature.
decreases. The output voltage of a series wound generator 
may be controlled by a rheostat in parallel with the field 
windings. [Figure 12-285A] Since the series wound generator 
has such poor regulation, it is never employed as an airplane 
generator. Generators in airplanes have field windings, which 
are connected either in shunt or in compound.
Shunt Wound DC Generators
A generator having a field winding connected in parallel 
with the external circuit is called a shunt generator. 
[Figure 12-286A and B] The field coils of a shunt generator 
contain many turns of small wire; the magnetic strength 
is derived from the large number of turns rather than the 
current strength through the coils. If a constant voltage is 
desired, the shunt wound generator is not suitable for rapidly 
fluctuating loads. Any increase in load causes a decrease 
in the terminal or output voltage, and any decrease in load 
causes an increase in terminal voltage; since the armature 
and the load are connected in series, all current flowing in 
the external circuit passes through the armature winding. 
Because of the resistance in the armature winding, there is 
a voltage drop (IR drop = current × resistance). As the load 
increases, the armature current increases and the IR drop in 
the armature increases. The voltage delivered to the terminals 
is the difference between the induced voltage and the voltage 
drop; therefore, there is a decrease in terminal voltage. This 
decrease in voltage causes a decrease in field strength, 
because the current in the field coils decreases in proportion 
to the decrease in terminal voltage; with a weaker field, the 
voltage is further decreased. When the load decreases, the 
output voltage increases accordingly, and a larger current 
flows in the windings. This action is cumulative, so the output 
voltage continues to rise to a point called field saturation, 
after which there is no further increase in output voltage.
The terminal voltage of a shunt generator can be controlled 
by means of a rheostat inserted in series with the field 
windings. [Figure 12-286A] As the resistance is increased, 
the field current is reduced; consequently, the generated 
voltage is reduced also. For a given setting of the field 
rheostat, the terminal voltage at the armature brushes is 
approximately equal to the generated voltage minus the IR

===== PDF-side 575 =====

12-134
N S
Rotation
+
+
+
+ a
b
Neutral plane
Rotation
++
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
++
S
N
N S
Rotation
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
++++
a
b
A
B
C
Field excited, armature unexcited
Armature excited, field unexcited
Both field and armature excited
Figure 12-283. Armature reaction.
drop produced by the load current in the armature; thus, the 
voltage at the terminals of the generator drops as the load is 
applied. Certain voltage sensitive devices are available that 
automatically adjust the field rheostat to compensate for 
variations in load. When these devices are used, the terminal 
voltage remains essentially constant.
Compound Wound DC Generators
A compound wound generator combines a series winding 
and a shunt winding in such a way that the characteristics 
of each are used to advantage. The series field coils are 
made of a relatively small number of turns of large copper 
conductor, either circular or rectangular in cross section, and 
are connected in series with the armature circuit. These coils 
are mounted on the same poles on which the shunt field coils 
are mounted and, therefore, contribute a magnetomotive 
force which influences the main field flux of the generator. 
A diagrammatic and a schematic illustration of a compound 
wound generator is shown in Figure 12-287A and B.
If the ampere turns of the series field act in the same direction 
as those of the shunt field, the combined magnetomotive force 
is equal to the sum of the series and shunt field components. 
Load is added to a compound generator in the same manner 
in which load is added to a shunt generator, by increasing 
the number of parallel paths across the generator terminals. 
Thus, the decrease in total load resistance with added load 
is accompanied by an increase in armature circuit and series 
field circuit current. The effect of the additive series field is 
that of increased field flux with increased load. The extent of 
the increased field flux depends on the degree of saturation 
of the field as determined by the shunt field current. Thus, the 
terminal voltage of the generator may increase or decrease with 
load, depending on the influence of the series field coils. This 
influence is referred to as the degree of compounding. A flat 
compound generator is one in which the no load and full load 
voltages have the same value; whereas an under compound 
generator has a full load voltage less than the no load value, 
and an over compound generator has a full load voltage which 
is higher than the no load value. Changes in terminal voltage 
with increasing load depend upon the degree of compounding.
If the series field aids the shunt field, the generator is said 
to be cumulative compounded. If the series field opposes 
the shunt field, the machine is said to be differentially 
compounded or is called a differential generator. Compound 
generators are usually designed to be overcompounded. 
This feature permits varied degrees of compounding by 
connecting a variable shunt across the series field. Such a 
shunt is sometimes called a diverter. Compound generators 
are used where voltage regulation is of prime importance.
Differential generators have somewhat the same characteristics 
as series generators in that they are essentially constant 
current generators. However, they generate rated voltage at 
no load, the voltage dropping materially as the load current 
increases. Constant current generators are ideally suited as 
power sources for electric arc welders and are used almost 
universally in electric arc welding.
If the shunt field of a compound generator is connected across 
both the armature and the series field, it is known as a long 
shunt connection, but if the shunt field is connected across 
the armature alone, it is called a short shunt connection. 
These connections produce essentially the same generator 
characteristics. A summary of the characteristics of the various 
types of generators discussed is shown in Figure 12-288.
Generator Ratings
A generator is rated in power output. Since a generator is 
designed to operate at a specified voltage, the rating usually 
is given as the number of amperes the generator can safely

===== PDF-side 576 =====

12-135
Generator
+
−
S
N
SN
External load
Generator
−−
−
−
−
− −
+ +
+
++
+
++
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
CompensatingA
InterpoleB
Main field windings
Armature windings
Main field 
windings
Compensating
windings
Compensating
windings
Interpole windings
Interpole 
windings
A
B
NS
Load
−
+
Field rheostat
Field coils
To load
Arm
Figure 12-284. Simple two-pole generator with two interpoles.
Figure 12-285. Diagram and schematic of a series wound generator.
supply at its rated voltage. Generator rating and performance 
data are stamped on the nameplate attached to the generator. 
When replacing a generator, it is important to choose one of 
the proper rating.
The rotation of generators is termed either clockwise or 
counterclockwise, as viewed from the driven end. Usually, 
the direction of rotation is stamped on the data plate. If 
no direction is stamped on the plate, the rotation may be 
marked by an arrow on the cover plate of the brush housing. 
It is important that a generator with the correct direction of 
rotation be used; otherwise, the voltage is reversed.
The speed of an aircraft engine varies from idle rpm to takeoff 
rpm; however, during the major portion of a flight, it is at a 
constant cruising speed. The generator drive is usually geared 
to revolve the generator between 11⁄8 and 11⁄2 times the engine 
crankshaft speed. Most aircraft generators have a speed at 
which they begin to produce their normal voltage. Termed 
the “coming in” speed, it is usually about 1,500 rpm.
Generator Terminals
On most large 24-volt generators, electrical connections 
are made to terminals marked B, A, and E. The positive 
armature lead in the generator connects to the B terminal. 
The negative armature lead connects to the E terminal. The 
positive end of the shunt field winding connects to terminal A, 
and the opposite end connects to the negative terminal brush. 
Terminal A receives current from the negative generator brush 
through the shunt field winding. This current passes through 
the voltage regulator and back to the armature through the 
positive brush. Load current, which leaves the armature 
through the negative brushes, comes out of the E lead and 
passes through the load before returning to the armature 
through the positive brushes.
DC Generator Maintenance
Inspection
The following information about the inspection and 
maintenance of DC generator systems is general in nature 
because of the large number of differing aircraft generator 
systems. These procedures are for familiarization only. 
Always follow the applicable manufacturer’s instructions 
for a given generator system.

===== PDF-side 577 =====

12-136
A
B
NS
+
−
Load
Series field coil
To load
Arm
Shunt
field
coil
Compound wound
Figure 12-287. Compound wound generator.
A
B
NS
+
−
Field
rheostat
Load
Shunt circuit Main circuit
Arm To loadField coils
Figure 12-286. Shunt wound generator.
In general, the inspection of the generator installed in the 
aircraft should include the following items:
1. Security of generator mounting
2. Condition of electrical connections
3. Dirt and oil in the generator—if oil is present, check 
engine oil seal. Blow out dirt with compressed air.
4. Condition of generator brushes
5. Generator operation
6. V oltage regulator operation
Condition of Generator Brushes
Sparking of brushes quickly reduces the effective brush area 
in contact with the commutator bars. The degree of such 
sparking should be determined. Excessive wear warrants a 
detailed inspection.
The following information pertains to brush seating, brush 
pressure, high mica condition, and brush wear. Manufacturers 
usually recommend the following procedures to seat brushes 
that do not make good contact with slip rings or commutators.
Lift the brush sufficiently to permit the insertion of a strip 
of No. 000, or finer, sandpaper under the brush, rough side 
out. [Figure 12-289]  Pull the sandpaper in the direction 
of armature rotation, being careful to keep the ends of the 
sandpaper as close to the slip ring or commutator surface as 
possible in order to avoid rounding the edges of the brush.
When pulling the sandpaper back to the starting point, raise 
the brush so it does not ride on the sandpaper. Sand the brush 
only in the direction of rotation.
After the generator has run for a short period, brushes should 
be inspected to make sure that pieces of sand have not become 
embedded in the brush and are collecting copper.
Under no circumstances should emery cloth or similar 
abrasives be used for seating brushes (or smoothing 
commutators), since they contain conductive materials that 
cause arcing between brushes and commutator bars.
Excessive pressure causes rapid wear of brushes. Too 
little pressure, however, allows “bouncing” of the brushes, 
resulting in burned and pitted surfaces.
A carbon, graphite, or light metalized brush should exert a 
pressure of 11⁄2 to 21⁄2 psi on the commutator. The pressure 
recommended by the manufacturer should be checked by 
the use of a spring scale graduated in ounces. Brush spring

===== PDF-side 578 =====

12-137
Output current or load0 100%
100%Output voltageSeries connection
Differential compounding
Shunt connection
Cumulative compounding
Figure 12-288. Generator characteristics.
tension is usually adjusted between 32 to 36 ounces; however, 
the tension may differ slightly for each specific generator.
When a spring scale is used, the measurement of the pressure 
that a brush exerts on the commutator is read directly on the 
scale. The scale is applied at the point of contact between the 
spring arm and the top of the brush, with the brush installed 
in the guide. The scale is drawn up until the arm just lifts 
off the brush surface. At this instant, the force on the scale 
should be read.
Flexible low resistance pigtails are provided on most heavy 
current carrying brushes, and their connections should be 
securely made and checked at frequent intervals. The pigtails 
should never be permitted to alter or restrict the free motion 
of the brush.
The purpose of the pigtail is to conduct the current, rather 
than subjecting the brush spring to currents that would alter 
its spring action by overheating. The pigtails also eliminate 
any possible sparking to the brush guides caused by the 
movement of the brushes within the holder, thus minimizing 
side wear of the brush.
Carbon dust resulting from brush sanding should be 
thoroughly cleaned from all parts of the generators after a 
sanding operation. Such carbon dust has been the cause of 
several serious fires, as well as costly damage to the generator.
Operation over extended periods of time often results in 
the mica insulation between commutator bars protruding 
above the surface of the bars. This condition is called “high 
mica” and interferes with the contact of the brushes to 
the commutator. Whenever this condition exists, or if the 
armature has been turned on a lathe, carefully undercut the 
mica insulation to a depth equal to the width of the mica, or 
approximately 1.20 inch.
Each brush should be a specified length to work properly.  
If a brush is too short, the contact it makes with the 
commutator will be faulty, which can also reduce the spring 
force holding the brush in place. Most manufacturers specify 
the amount of wear permissible from a new brush length. 
When a brush has worn to the minimum length permissible, 
it must be replaced.
Some special generator brushes should not be replaced 
because of a slight grooving on the face of the brush. These 
grooves are normal and will appear in AC and DC generator 
brushes which are installed in some models of aircraft 
generators. These brushes have two cores made of a harder 
material with a higher expansion rate than the material used 
in the main body of the brush. Usually, the main body of 
the brush face rides on the commutator. However, at certain 
temperatures, the cores extend and wear through any film 
on the commutator.
DC Motors
Most devices in an airplane, from the starter [Figure 12-290] 
to the automatic pilot, depend upon mechanical energy 
furnished by DC motors. A DC motor is a rotating machine, 
which transforms DC energy into mechanical energy. It 
consists of two principal parts—a field assembly and an 
armature assembly. The armature is the rotating part in which 
current carrying wires are acted upon by the magnetic field.
Whenever a current carrying wire is placed in the field of 
a magnet, a force acts on the wire. The force is not one of 
attraction or repulsion; however, it is at right angles to the 
wire and also at right angles to the magnetic field set up by 
the magnet. The action of the force upon a current carrying 
wire placed in a magnetic field is shown in Figure 12-291. 
A wire is located between two permanent magnets. The lines 
of force in the magnetic field are from the North pole to the 
South pole. When no current flows, no force is exerted on the 
wire, but when current flows through the wire, a magnetic 
field is set up about it. [Figure 12-291] The direction of the 
field depends on the direction of current flow. Current in one 
direction creates a clockwise field about the wire, and current 
in the other direction, a counterclockwise field.
Since the current carrying wire produces a magnetic field, 
a reaction occurs between the field about the wire and the 
magnetic field between the magnets. When the current flows

===== PDF-side 579 =====

12-138
Unseated brush
000 sandpaper (sand side next to brush)
Properly seated brush
1/32" to 1/16"
Figure 12-289. Seating brushes with sandpaper.
in a direction to create a counterclockwise magnetic field 
about the wire, this field and the field between the magnets 
add or reinforce at the bottom of the wire because the lines 
of force are in the same direction. At the top of the wire, 
they subtract or neutralize, since the lines of force in the two 
fields are opposite in direction. Thus, the resulting field at the 
bottom is strong and the one at the top is weak. Consequently, 
the wire is pushed upward. [Figure 12-291C] The wire is 
always pushed away from the side where the field is strongest.
If current flow through the wire were reversed in direction, 
the two fields would add at the top and subtract at the bottom. 
Since a wire is always pushed away from the strong field, 
the wire would be pushed down.
Force Between Parallel Conductors
Two wires carrying current in the vicinity of one another exert 
a force on each other because of their magnetic fields. An 
end view of two conductors is shown in Figure 12-292. In 
Figure 12-292A, electron flow in both conductors is toward 
the reader, and the magnetic fields are clockwise around the 
conductors. Between the wires, the fields cancel because the 
directions of the two fields oppose each other. The wires are 
forced in the direction of the weaker field, toward each other. 
This force is one of attraction. In Figure 12-292B, the electron 
flow in the two wires is in opposite directions. 
The magnetic fields are, therefore, clockwise in one and 
counterclockwise in the other, as shown. The fields reinforce 
each other between the wires, and the wires are forced in the 
direction of the weaker field, away from each other. This 
force is one of repulsion.
To summarize: conductors carrying current in the same 
direction tend to be drawn together; conductors carrying current 
in opposite directions tend to be repelled from each other.
Developing Torque
If a coil in which current is flowing is placed in a magnetic 
field, a force is produced which causes the coil to rotate. In 
the coil shown in Figure 12-293, current flows inward on 
side A and outward on side B. The magnetic field about B is 
clockwise and that about A, counterclockwise. As previously 
explained, a force develops which pushes side B downward. 
At the same time, the field of the magnets and the field 
about A, in which the current is inward, adds at the bottom 
and subtracts at the top. Therefore, A moves upward. The 
coil rotates until its plane is perpendicular to the magnetic 
lines between the North and South poles of the magnet, as 
indicated in Figure 12-293 by the white coil at right angles 
to the black coil.
The tendency of a force to produce rotation is called torque. 
When the steering wheel of a car is turned, torque is applied. 
The engine of an airplane gives torque to the propeller. Torque 
is developed also by the reacting magnetic fields about the 
current carrying coil just described. This is the torque, which 
turns the coil.
The right-hand motor rule can be used to determine the 
direction a current carrying wire moves in a magnetic field. 
As illustrated in Figure 12-294, if the index finger of the 
right hand is pointed in the direction of the magnetic field 
and the second finger in the direction of current flow, the 
thumb indicates the direction the current carrying wire moves.
The amount of torque developed in a coil depends upon several 
factors: the strength of the magnetic field, the number of turns 
in the coil, and the position of the coil in the field. Magnets are 
made of special steel that produces a strong field. Since there 
is torque acting on each turn, the greater the number of turns 
on the coil, the greater the torque. In a coil carrying a steady 
current located in a uniform magnetic field, the torque varies 
at successive positions of rotation. [Figure 12-295] When the 
plane of the coil is parallel to the lines of force, the torque is 
zero. When its plane cuts the lines of force at right angles, the 
torque is 100 percent. At intermediate positions, the torque 
ranges between 0 and 100 percent.
Basic DC Motor
A coil of wire through which the current flows rotates when 
placed in a magnetic field. This is the technical basis governing 
the construction of a DC motor. [Figure 12-296] However,

===== PDF-side 580 =====

12-139
A B C
Wire without current located 
in a magnetic field
Wire with current and 
accompanying field
Resultant field and 
direction of force on wire
Figure 12-290. DC series starter motor.
Figure 12-291. Force on a current carrying wire.
if the connecting wires from the battery were permanently 
fastened to the terminals of the coil and there was a flow of 
current, the coil would rotate only until it lined itself up with 
the magnetic field. Then, it would stop, because the torque 
at that point would be 0.
A motor, of course, must continue rotating. It is therefore 
necessary to design a device that reverses the current in the 
coil just at the time the coil becomes parallel to the lines of 
force. This creates torque again and causes the coil to rotate. 
If the current reversing device is set up to reverse the current 
each time the coil is about to stop, the coil can be made to 
continue rotating as long as desired.
One method of doing this is to connect the circuit so that, as 
the coil rotates, each contact slides off the terminal to which it 
connects and slides onto the terminal of opposite polarity. In 
other words, the coil contacts switch terminals continuously 
as the coil rotates, preserving the torque and keeping the 
coil rotating. In Figure 12-296, the coil terminal segments 
are labeled A and B. As the coil rotates, the segments slide 
onto and past the fixed terminals or brushes. With this 
arrangement, the direction of current in the side of the coil 
next to the North-seeking pole flows toward the reader, and 
the force acting on that side of the coil turns it downward. 
The part of the motor that changes the current from one wire 
to another is called the commutator.
Position A
When the coil is positioned as shown in Figure 12-296A, 
current flows from the negative terminal of the battery to the 
negative (−) brush, to segment B of the commutator, through 
the loop to segment A of the commutator, to the positive (+) 
brush, and then back to the positive terminal of the battery. 
By using the right-hand motor rule, it is seen that the coil 
rotates counterclockwise. The torque at this position of the 
coil is maximum, since the greatest number of lines of force 
is being cut by the coil.
Position B
When the coil has rotated 90° to the position shown 
in Figure 12-296B, segments A and B of the commutator no 
longer make contact with the battery circuit and no current 
can flow through the coil. At this position, the torque has 
reached a minimum value, since a minimum number of lines 
of force are being cut. However, the momentum of the coil 
carries it beyond this position until the segments again make 
contact with the brushes, and current again enters the coil; 
this time, though, it enters through segment A and leaves 
through segment B. However, since the positions of segments 
A and B have also been reversed, the effect of the current is 
as before, the torque acts in the same direction, and the coil 
continues its counterclockwise rotation.
Position C
On passing through the position shown in Figure 12-296C, 
the torque again reaches maximum.
Position D
Continued rotation carries the coil again to a position of 
minimum torque as in Figure 12-296D. At this position, the 
brushes no longer carry current, but once more the momentum 
rotates the coil to the point where current enters through

===== PDF-side 581 =====

12-140
N
 S
A
B
Direction of current
Magnetic fieldTorque
Current
Motion
Magnetic flux
Figure 12-293. Developing a torque.
Figure 12-294. Right-hand motor rule.
+
A
B
Figure 12-292. Fields surrounding parallel conductors.
segment B and leaves through A. Further rotation brings the 
coil to the starting point and, thus, one revolution is completed.
The switching of the coil terminals from the positive to the 
negative brushes occurs twice per revolution of the coil.
The torque in a motor containing only a single coil is neither 
continuous nor very effective, for there are two positions 
where there is actually no torque at all. To overcome this, a 
practical DC motor contains a large number of coils wound on 
the armature. These coils are so spaced that, for any position 
of the armature, there are coils near the poles of the magnet. 
This makes the torque both continuous and strong. The 
commutator, likewise, contains a large number of segments 
instead of only two.
The armature in a practical motor is not placed between 
the poles of a permanent magnet but between those of an 
electromagnet, since a much stronger magnetic field can be 
furnished. The core is usually made of a mild or annealed 
steel, which can be magnetized strongly by induction. The 
current magnetizing the electromagnet is from the same 
source that supplies the current to the armature.
DC Motor Construction
The major parts in a practical motor are the armature 
assembly, the field assembly, the brush assembly, and the 
end frame. [Figure 12-297]
Armature Assembly
The armature assembly contains a laminated, soft-iron core, 
coils, and a commutator, all mounted on a rotatable steel shaft. 
Laminations made of stacks of soft iron, insulated from each 
other, form the armature core. Solid iron is not used, since a 
solid iron core revolving in the magnetic field would heat and 
use energy needlessly. The armature windings are insulated 
copper wire, which are inserted in slots insulated with fiber 
paper (fish paper) to protect the windings. The ends of the 
windings are connected to the commutator segments. Wedges 
or steel bands hold the windings in place to prevent them 
from flying out of the slots when the armature is rotating at 
high speeds. The commutator consists of a large number of 
copper segments insulated from each other and the armature 
shaft by pieces of mica. Insulated wedge rings hold the 
segments in place.

===== PDF-side 582 =====

12-141
 
S
N 45°
71%
100%
90°
0°
Zero torque
Figure 12-295. Torque on a coil at various angles of rotation.
SN
A B
Brush
Torque
SN
A
B
No torque
SN
B A
Torque
SN
B
A
No torque
A
B
C
D
Figure 12-296. Basic DC motor operation.
Field Assembly
The field assembly consists of the field frame, the pole pieces, 
and the field coils. The field frame is located along the inner 
wall of the motor housing. It contains laminated, soft-steel pole 
pieces on which the field coils are wound. A coil, consisting of 
several turns of insulated wire, fits over each pole piece and, 
together with the pole, constitutes a field pole. Some motors 
have as few as two poles, others as many as eight.
Brush Assembly
The brush assembly consists of the brushes and their holders. 
The brushes are usually small blocks of graphitic carbon, since 
this material has a long service life and also causes minimum 
wear to the commutator. The holders permit some play in the 
brushes so they can follow any irregularities in the surface 
of the commutator and make good contact. Springs hold the 
brushes firmly against the commutator. [Figure 12-298]
End Frame
The end frame is the part of the motor opposite the 
commutator. Usually, the end frame is designed so that it 
can be connected to the unit to be driven. The bearing for the 
drive end is also located in the end frame. Sometimes the end 
frame is made a part of the unit driven by the motor. When 
this is done, the bearing on the drive end may be located in 
any one of a number of places.
Types of DC Motors
There are three basic types of DC motors: series motors, shunt 
motors, and compound motors. They differ largely in the 
method in which their field and armature coils are connected.
Series DC Motor
In the series motor, the field windings, consisting of a 
relatively few turns of heavy wire, are connected in series 
with the armature winding. Both a diagrammatic and a 
schematic illustration of a series motor are shown in 
Figure 12-299. The same current flowing through the field 
winding also flows through the armature winding. Any 
increase in current, therefore, strengthens the magnetism of

===== PDF-side 583 =====

12-142
both the field and the armature.
Because of the low resistance in the windings, the series 
motor is able to draw a large current in starting. This starting 
current, in passing through both the field and armature 
windings, produces a high starting torque, which is the series 
motor’s principal advantage.
The speed of a series motor is dependent upon the load. Any 
change in load is accompanied by a substantial change in 
speed. A series motor runs at high speed when it has a light 
load and at low speed with a heavy load. If the load is removed 
entirely, the motor may operate at such a high speed that the 
armature falls apart. If high starting torque is needed under 
heavy load conditions, series motors have many applications. 
Series motors are often used in aircraft as engine starters and for 
raising and lowering landing gears, cowl flaps, and wing flaps.
Shunt DC Motor
In the shunt motor, the field winding is connected in parallel 
or in shunt with the armature winding. [Figure 12-300] The 
resistance in the field winding is high. Since the field winding 
is connected directly across the power supply, the current 
through the field is constant. The field current does not vary 
with motor speed, as in the series motor and, therefore, the 
torque of the shunt motor varies only with the current through 
the armature. The torque developed at starting is less than 
that developed by a series motor of equal size.
The speed of the shunt motor varies very little with changes 
in load. When all load is removed, it assumes a speed slightly 
higher than the loaded speed. This motor is particularly 
suitable for use when constant speed is desired and when 
high starting torque is not needed.
Compound DC Motor
The compound motor is a combination of the series and shunt 
motors. There are two windings in the field: a shunt winding 
and a series winding. [Figure 12-301] The shunt winding 
is composed of many turns of fine wire and is connected in 
parallel with the armature winding. The series winding 
consists of a few turns of large wire and is connected in series 
with the armature winding. The starting torque is higher than 
in the shunt motor but lower than in the series motor. Variation 
of speed with load is less than in a series wound motor but 
greater than in a shunt motor. The compound motor is used 
whenever the combined characteristics of the series and shunt 
motors are desired.
Like the compound generator, the compound motor has both 
series and shunt field windings. The series winding may 
either aid the shunt wind (cumulative compound) or oppose 
the shunt winding (differential compound). The starting 
and load characteristics of the cumulative compound motor 
are somewhere between those of the series and those of the 
shunt motor.
Because of the series field, the cumulative compound motor 
has a higher starting torque than a shunt motor. Cumulative 
compound motors are used in driving machines, which are 
subject to sudden changes in load. They are also used where a 
high starting torque is desired, but a series motor cannot be 
used easily.
In the differential compound motor, an increase in load 
creates an increase in current and a decrease in total flux in 
this type of motor. These two tend to offset each other and 
the result is a practically constant speed. However, since an 
increase in load tends to decrease the field strength, the speed 
characteristic becomes unstable. Rarely is this type of motor 
used in aircraft systems.
A graph of the variation in speed with changes of load of 
the various types of DC motors is shown in Figure 12-302.
Counter Electromotive Force (emf)
The armature resistance of a small, 28-volt DC motor 
is extremely low, about 0.1 ohm. When the armature is 
connected across the 28-volt source, current through the 
armature is apparently:
I =      =        = 280 amperesE 28
R 0.1
This high value of current flow is not only impracticable but 
also unreasonable, especially when the current drain, during 
normal operation of a motor, is found to be about 4 amperes. 
This is because the current through a motor armature during 
operation is determined by more factors than ohmic resistance.
When the armature in a motor rotates in a magnetic field, a 
voltage is induced in its windings. This voltage is called the 
back or counter emf and is opposite in direction to the voltage 
applied to the motor from the external source.
Counter emf opposes the current, which causes the armature 
to rotate. The current flowing through the armature, therefore, 
decreases as the counter emf increases. The faster the 
armature rotates, the greater the counter emf. For this reason, 
a motor connected to a battery may draw a fairly high current 
on starting, but as the armature speed increases, the current 
flowing through the armature decreases. At rated speed, the 
counter emf may be only a few volts less than the battery 
voltage. Then, if the load on the motor is increased, the motor 
slows down, less counter emf is generated, and the current 
drawn from the external source increases. In a shunt motor, 
the counter emf affects only the current in the armature, since

===== PDF-side 584 =====

12-143
End frame
Field coils
Armature
Brush rigging
Bearing
Cover
Commutator
Tube type brush
Box type brush
Figure 12-297. Cutaway view of practical DC motor.
Figure 12-298. Commutator and brushes.
the field is connected in parallel across the power source. As 
the motor slows down and the counter emf decreases, more 
current flows through the armature, but the magnetism in the 
field is unchanged. When the series motor slows down, the 
counter EMF decreases and more current flows through the 
field and the armature, thereby strengthening their magnetic 
fields. Because of these characteristics, it is more difficult to 
stall a series motor than a shunt motor.
Types of Duty
Electric motors are called upon to operate under various 
conditions. Some motors are used for intermittent operation;

===== PDF-side 585 =====

12-144
Commutator
Armature
Shunt field
Shunt field
A
B
Diagrammatic
Schematic
Figure 12-300. Shunt motor.
Commutator
Armature
Wire
A
B
Diagrammatic
Schematic
Figure 12-299. Series motor.
others operate continuously. Motors built for intermittent 
duty can be operated for short periods only and, then, must 
be allowed to cool before being operated again. If such a 
motor is operated for long periods under full load, the motor 
becomes overheated. Motors built for continuous duty may 
be operated at rated power for long periods.
Reversing Motor Direction
By reversing the direction of current flow in either the armature 
or the field windings, the direction of a motor’s rotation may be 
reversed. This reverses the magnetism of either the armature or 
the magnetic field in which the armature rotates. If the wires 
connecting the motor to an external source are interchanged, 
the direction of rotation is not reversed, since changing these 
wires reverses the magnetism of both field and armature and 
leaves the torque in the same direction as before.
One method for reversing direction of rotation employs 
two field windings wound in opposite directions on the 
same pole. This type of motor is called a split field motor. 
[Figure 12-303]  The single pole, double throw switch 
makes it possible to direct current through either of the two 
windings. When the switch is placed in the lower position, 
current flows through the lower field winding, creating 
a North pole at the lower field winding and at the lower 
pole piece, and a South pole at the upper pole piece. When 
the switch is placed in the upper position, current flows 
through the upper field winding, the magnetism of the 
field is reversed, and the armature rotates in the opposite 
direction. Some split field motors are built with two separate 
field windings wound on alternate poles. The armature in 
such a motor, a four pole reversible motor, rotates in one 
direction when current flows through the windings of one set 
of opposite pole pieces, and in the opposite direction when 
current flows through the other set of windings.
Another method of direction reversal, called the switch 
method, employs a double pole, double throw switch which 
changes the direction of current flow in either the armature 
or the field. In the illustration of the switch method shown in 
Figure 12-304, current direction may be reversed through the 
field but not through the armature. When the switch is thrown 
to the “up” position, current flows through the field winding 
to establish a North pole at the right side of the motor and a 
South pole at the left side of the motor. When the switch is 
thrown to the “down” position, this polarity is reversed and 
the armature rotates in the opposite direction.

===== PDF-side 586 =====

12-145
Shunt 
field
+
–
Series
field
M
Output power or load0 100%
100%Speed of rotation
Series connection
Differential compounding
Shunt connection
Cumulative compounding
Figure 12-301. Compound motor.
Figure 12-302. Load characteristics of DC motors.
Motor Speed
Motor speed can be controlled by varying the current in the 
field windings. When the amount of current flowing through 
the field windings is increased, the field strength increases, 
but the motor slows down since a greater amount of counter 
EMF is generated in the armature windings. When the field 
current is decreased, the field strength decreases, and the 
motor speeds up because the counter EMF is reduced. A 
motor in which speed can be controlled is called a variable 
speed motor. It may be either a shunt or series motor.
In the shunt motor, speed is controlled by a rheostat in series 
with the field windings. [Figure 12-305] The speed depends 
on the amount of current that flows through the rheostat to the 
field windings. To increase the motor speed, the resistance in 
the rheostat is increased, which decreases the field current. 
As a result, there is a decrease in the strength of the magnetic 
field and in the counter EMF. This momentarily increases the 
armature current and the torque. The motor then automatically 
speeds up until the counter EMF increases and causes the 
armature current to decrease to its former value. When this 
occurs, the motor operates at a higher fixed speed than before.
To decrease the motor speed, the resistance of the rheostat 
is decreased. More current flows through the field windings 
and increases the strength of the field; then, the counter EMF 
increases momentarily and decreases the armature current. 
As a result, the torque decreases and the motor slows down 
until the counter EMF decreases to its former value; then the 
motor operates at a lower fixed speed than before.
In the series motor, the rheostat speed control is connected 
either in parallel or in series with the motor field, or in 
parallel with the armature. When the rheostat is set for 
maximum resistance, the motor speed is increased in the 
parallel armature connection by a decrease in current. When 
the rheostat resistance is maximum in the series connection, 
motor speed is reduced by a reduction in voltage across the 
motor. For above normal speed operation, the rheostat is in 
parallel with the series field. Part of the series field current 
is bypassed and the motor speeds up. [Figure 12-306]
Energy Losses in DC Motors
Losses occur when electrical energy is converted to 
mechanical energy (in the motor), or mechanical energy 
is converted to electrical energy (in the generator). For 
the machine to be efficient, these losses must be kept to a 
minimum. Some losses are electrical; others are mechanical. 
Electrical losses are classified as copper losses and iron 
losses; mechanical losses occur in overcoming the friction 
of various parts of the machine.
Copper losses occur when electrons are forced through 
the copper windings of the armature and the field. These 
losses are proportional to the square of the current. They are 
sometimes called I2R losses, since they are due to the power 
dissipated in the form of heat in the resistance of the field 
and armature windings.
Iron losses are subdivided in hysteresis and eddy current 
losses. Hysteresis losses are caused by the armature revolving 
in an alternating magnetic field. It, therefore, becomes 
magnetized first in one direction and then in the other. The 
residual magnetism of the iron or steel of which the armature 
is made causes these losses. Since the field magnets are 
always magnetized in one direction (DC field), they have 
no hysteresis losses.
Eddy current losses occur because the iron core of the 
armature is a conductor revolving in a magnetic field. This 
sets up an EMF across portions of the core, causing currents 
to flow within the core. These currents heat the core and, if 
they become excessive, may damage the windings. As far as 
the output is concerned, the power consumed by eddy currents 
is a loss. To reduce eddy currents to a minimum, a laminated

===== PDF-side 587 =====

12-146
Double pole
Double throw switch
Down
Up
Figure 12-304. Switch method of reversing motor direction.
A
B
Figure 12-303. Split field series motor.
core usually is used. A laminated core is made of thin sheets 
of iron electrically insulated from each other. The insulation 
between laminations reduces eddy currents, because it is 
“transverse” to the direction in which these currents tend to 
flow. However, it has no effect on the magnetic circuit. The 
thinner the laminations, the more effectively this method 
reduces eddy current losses.
Inspection and Maintenance of DC Motors
Use the following procedures to make inspection and 
maintenance checks:
1. Check the operation of the unit driven by the motor 
in accordance with the instructions covering the 
specific installation.
2. Check all wiring, connections, terminals, fuses, and 
switches for general condition and security.
3. Keep motors clean and mounting bolts tight.
4. Check brushes for condition, length, and spring 
tension. Minimum brush lengths, correct spring 
tension, and procedures for replacing brushes are 
given in the applicable manufacturer’s instructions.
5. Inspect commutator for cleanness, pitting, scoring, 
roughness, corrosion, or burning. Check for high 
mica (IF the copper wears down below the mica, the 
mica insulates the brushes from the commutator.) 
Clean dirty commutators with a cloth moistened with 
the recommended cleaning solvent. Polish rough 
or corroded commutators with fine sandpaper (000 
or finer) and blow out with compressed air. Never 
use emery paper since it contains metallic particles 
that may cause shorts. Replace the motor if the 
commutator is burned, badly pitted, grooved, or worn 
to the extent that the mica insulation is flush with the 
commutator surface.
6. Inspect all exposed wiring for evidence of overheating. 
Replace the motor if the insulation on leads or 
windings is burned, cracked, or brittle.
7. Lubricate only if called for by the manufacturer’s 
instructions covering the motor. Most motors used 
in today’s airplanes require no lubrication between 
overhauls.
8. Adjust and lubricate the gearbox, or unit which the 
motor drives, in accordance with the applicable 
manufacturer’s instructions covering the unit.
When trouble develops in a DC motor system, check first to 
determine the source of the trouble. Replace the motor only 
when the trouble is due to a defect in the motor itself. In most 
cases, the failure of a motor to operate is caused by a defect 
in the external electrical circuit or by mechanical failure in 
the mechanism driven by the motor.
Check the external electrical circuit for loose or dirty

===== PDF-side 588 =====

12-147
Rheostat
Frame
Pole 
Commutator
Armature
Shunt led
Figure 12-305. Shunt motor with variable speed control.
connections and for improper connection of wiring. Look 
for open circuits, grounds, and shorts by following the 
applicable manufacturer’s circuit testing procedure. If the 
fuse is not blown, failure of the motor to operate is usually 
due to an open circuit. A blown fuse usually indicates an 
accidental ground or short circuit. A low battery usually 
causes the chattering of the relay switch, which controls the 
motor. When the battery is low, the open circuit voltage of 
the battery is sufficient to close the relay, but with the heavy 
current draw of the motor, the voltage drops below the level 
required to hold the relay closed. When the relay opens, the 
voltage in the battery increases enough to close the relay 
again. This cycle repeats and causes chattering, which is very 
harmful to the relay switch due to the heavy current causing 
an arc which burns the contacts.
Check the unit driven by the motor for failure of the unit 
or drive mechanism. If the motor has failed as a result of a 
failure in the driven unit, the fault must be corrected before 
installing a new motor. If it has been determined that the 
fault is in the motor itself (by checking for correct voltage 
at the motor terminals and for failure of the driven unit), 
inspect the commutator and brushes. A dirty commutator 
or defective or binding brushes may result in poor contact 
between brushes and commutator. Clean the commutator, 
brushes, and brush holders with a cloth moistened with the 
recommended cleaning solvent. If brushes are damaged or 
worn to the specified minimum length, install new brushes in 
accordance with the applicable manufacturer’s instructions 
covering the motor. If the motor still fails to operate, replace 
it with a serviceable motor.
AC Motors
Because of their advantages, many types of aircraft motors 
are designed to operate on alternating current. In general, 
AC motors are less expensive than comparable DC motors. 
In many instances, AC motors do not use brushes and 
commutators so sparking at the brushes is avoided. AC 
motors are reliable and require little maintenance. They are 
also well suited for constant speed applications and certain 
types are manufactured that have, within limits, variable 
speed characteristics. Alternating current motors are designed 
to operate on polyphase or single-phase lines and at several 
voltage ratings.
The speed of rotation of an AC motor depends upon the number 
of poles and the frequency of the electrical source of power:
rpm = 120 × Frequency
Number of poles
Since airplane electrical systems typically operate at 400 
cycles, an electric motor at this frequency operates at about 
seven times the speed of a 60-cycle commercial motor with 
the same number of poles. Because of this high speed of 
rotation, 400-cycle AC motors are suitable for operating 
small, high-speed rotors, through reduction gears, in 
lifting and moving heavy loads, such as the wing flaps, the 
retractable landing gear, and the starting of engines. The 
400-cycle induction type motor operates at speeds ranging 
from 6,000 rpm to 24,000 rpm. Alternating current motors 
are rated in horsepower output, operating voltage, full load 
current, speed, number of phases, and frequency. Whether 
the motors operate continuously or intermittently (for short 
intervals) is also considered in the rating.
Types of AC Motors
There are two general types of AC motors used in aircraft 
systems: induction motors and synchronous motors. Either type 
may be single-phase, two-phase, or three-phase. Three-phase 
induction motors are used where large amounts of power are 
required. They operate such devices as starters, flaps, landing 
gears, and hydraulic pumps. Single-phase induction motors 
are used to operate devices such as surface locks, intercooler 
shutters, and oil shutoff valves in which the power requirement 
is low. Three-phase synchronous motors operate at constant 
synchronous speeds and are commonly used to operate flux 
gate compasses and propeller synchronizer systems. Single-
phase synchronous motors are common sources of power to 
operate electric clocks and other small, precision equipment. 
They require some auxiliary method to bring them up to

===== PDF-side 589 =====

12-148
Below normal speed Normal speed Above normal speed
M
Rheostat
Series
filed
FastSlow
–
+ +
M
Rheostat
FastSlow
–
+
M
Fast
Slow
–
Figure 12-306. Controlling the speed of a series DC motor.
synchronous speeds; that is, to start them. Usually the starting 
winding consists of an auxiliary stator winding.
Three-Phase Induction Motor
The three-phase AC induction motor is also called a squirrel 
cage motor. Both single-phase and three-phase motors 
operate on the principle of a rotating magnetic field. A 
horseshoe magnet held over a compass needle is a simple 
illustration of the principle of the rotating field. The needle 
takes a position parallel to the magnetic flux passing between 
the two poles of the magnet. If the magnet is rotated, the 
compass needle follows. A rotating magnetic field can be 
produced by a two-or three-phase current flowing through 
two or more groups of coils wound on inwardly projecting 
poles of an iron frame. The coils on each group of poles 
are wound alternately in opposite directions to produce 
opposite polarity, and each group is connected to a separate 
phase of voltage. The operating principle depends on a 
revolving, or rotating, magnetic field to produce torque. 
The key to understanding the induction motor is a thorough 
understanding of the rotating magnetic field.
Rotating Magnetic Field
The field structure shown in Figure 12-307A  has poles 
whose windings are energized by three AC voltages: a, b, 
and c. These voltages have equal magnitude but differ in 
phase. [Figure 12-307B] At the instant of time shown as 
0, the resultant magnetic field produced by the application 
of the three voltages has its greatest intensity in a direction 
extending from pole 1 to pole 4. Under this condition, pole 
1 can be considered as a North pole and pole 4 as a South 
pole. At the instant of time shown as 1, the resultant magnetic 
field has its greatest intensity in the direction extending from 
pole 2 to pole 5. In this case, pole 2 can be considered as a 
North pole and pole 5 as a South pole. Thus, between instant 
0 and instant 1, the magnetic field has rotated clockwise. At 
instant 2, the resultant magnetic field has its greatest intensity 
in the direction from pole 3 to pole 6, and the resultant 
magnetic field has continued to rotate clockwise. At instant 
3, poles 4 and 1 can be considered as North and South poles, 
respectively, and the field has rotated still farther. At later 
instants of time, the resultant magnetic field rotates to other 
positions while traveling in a clockwise direction, a single 
revolution of the field occurring in one cycle. If the exciting 
voltages have a frequency of 60 cps, the magnetic field makes 
60 revolutions per second, or 3,600 rpm. This speed is known 
as the synchronous speed of the rotating field.
Construction of Induction Motor
The stationary portion of an induction motor is called a stator, 
and the rotating member is called a rotor. Instead of salient 
poles in the stator, as shown in Figure 12-307A, distributed 
windings are used. These windings are placed in slots 
around the periphery of the stator. It is usually impossible 
to determine the number of poles in an induction motor by 
visual inspection, but the information can be obtained from 
the nameplate of the motor. The nameplate usually gives the 
number of poles and the speed at which the motor is designed

===== PDF-side 590 =====

12-149
to run. This rated, or nonsynchronous, speed is slightly less 
than the synchronous speed. To determine the number of 
poles per phase on the motor, divide 120 times the frequency 
by the rated speed. Written as an equation, it is:
P = 120 × f
N
Where: P is the number of poles per phase
 f is the frequency in cps
 N is the rated speed in rpm, and 
 120 is a constant
The result is nearly equal to the number of poles per phase. 
For example, consider a 60-cycle, three-phase motor with a 
rated speed of 1,750 rpm. In this case:
P =                =           = 4.1120 × 60 7,200
1,750 1,750
Therefore, the motor has four poles per phase. If the number 
of poles per phase is given on the nameplate, the synchronous 
speed can be determined by dividing 120 times the frequency 
by the number of poles per phase. In the example used above, 
the synchronous speed is equal to 7,200/4, or 1,800 rpm.
The rotor of an induction motor consists of an iron core 
having longitudinal slots around its circumference in which 
heavy copper or aluminum bars are embedded. These bars 
are welded to a heavy ring of high conductivity on either 
end. The composite structure is sometimes called a squirrel 
cage, and motors containing such a rotor are called squirrel 
cage induction motors. [Figure 12-308]
Induction Motor Slip
When the rotor of an induction motor is subjected to the 
revolving magnetic field produced by the stator windings, 
a voltage is induced in the longitudinal bars. The induced 
voltage causes a current to flow through the bars. This current, 
in turn, produces its own magnetic field, which combines 
with the revolving field so that the rotor assumes a position in 
which the induced voltage is minimized. As a result, the rotor 
revolves at very nearly the synchronous speed of the stator 
field, the difference in speed being just sufficient enough to 
induce the proper amount of current in the rotor to overcome 
the mechanical and electrical losses in the rotor. If the rotor 
were to turn at the same speed as the rotating field, the rotor 
conductors would not be cut by any magnetic lines of force, 
no EMF would be induced in them, no current could flow, and 
there would be no torque. The rotor would then slow down. 
For this reason, there must always be a difference in speed 
between the rotor and the rotating field. This difference in 
speed is called slip and is expressed as a percentage of the 
synchronous speed. For example, if the rotor turns at 1,750 rpm 
and the synchronous speed is 1,800 rpm, the difference in speed 
is 50 rpm. The slip is then equal to 50/1,800 or 2.78 percent.
Single-Phase Induction Motor
The previous discussion has applied only to polyphase 
motors. A single-phase motor has only one stator winding. 
This winding generates a field, which merely pulsates, instead 
of rotating. When the rotor is stationary, the expanding and 
collapsing stator field induces currents in the rotor. These 
currents generate a rotor field opposite in polarity to that of 
the stator. The opposition of the field exerts a turning force 
on the upper and lower parts of the rotor trying to turn it 180° 
from its position. Since these forces are exerted through the 
center of the rotor, the turning force is equal in each direction. 
As a result, the rotor does not turn. If the rotor starts turning, 
it continues to rotate in the direction in which it started, since 
the turning force in that direction is aided by the momentum 
of the rotor.
Shaded Pole Induction Motor
The first effort in the development of a self-starting, 
single-phase motor was the shaded pole induction motor. 
[Figure 12-309]  This motor has salient poles, a portion 
of each pole being encircled by a heavy copper ring. The 
presence of the ring causes the magnetic field through the 
ringed portion of the pole face to lag appreciably behind 
that through the other part of the pole face. The net effect 
is the production of a slight component of rotation of the 
field, sufficient to cause the rotor to revolve. As the rotor 
accelerates, the torque increases until the rated speed is 
obtained. Such motors have low starting torque and find 
their greatest application in small fan motors where the initial 
torque required is low.
In Figure 12-309 , a diagram of a pole and the rotor is 
shown. The poles of the shaded pole motor resemble those 
of a DC motor.
A low resistance, short-circuited coil or copper band is placed 
across one tip of each small pole from which the motor gets 
the name of shaded pole. The rotor of this motor is the squirrel 
cage type. As the current increases in the stator winding, the 
flux increases. A portion of this flux cuts the low resistance 
shading coil. This induces a current in the shading coil, and 
by Lenz’s Law, the current sets up a flux that opposes the 
flux inducing the current. Hence, most of the flux passes 
through the unshaded portion of the poles. [Figure 12-310]
When the current in the winding and the main flux reaches 
a maximum, the rate of change is zero; thus, no emf is 
induced in the shading coil. A little later, the shading coil 
current, which causes the induced emf to lag, reaches zero, 
and there is no opposing flux. Therefore, the main field flux

===== PDF-side 591 =====

12-150
a
a
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
a
1
2
3
6
5
4
b
b
b
c
c
c180°
Time
A
B
Figure 12-307. Rotating magnetic field developed by application 
of three-phase voltages.
passes through the shaded portion of the field pole. The 
main field flux, which is now decreasing, induces a current 
in the shading coil. This current sets up a flux that opposes 
the decrease of the main field flux in the shaded portion of 
the pole. The effect is to concentrate the lines of force in 
the shaded portion of the pole face. In effect, the shading 
coil retards, in time phase, the portion of the flux passing 
through the shaded part of the pole. This lag in time phase 
of the flux in the shaded tip causes the flux to produce the 
effect of sweeping across the face of the pole, from left to 
right in the direction of the shaded tip. This behaves like a 
very weak rotating magnetic field, and sufficient torque is 
produced to start a small motor. The starting torque of the 
shaded pole motor is exceedingly weak, and the power factor 
is low. Consequently, it is built in sizes suitable for driving 
such devices as small fans.
Split-Phase Motor
There are various types of self-starting motors, known as 
split-phase motors. Such motors have a starting winding 
displaced 90 electrical degrees from the main or running 
winding. In some types, the starting winding has a fairly 
high resistance, which causes the current in this winding 
to be out of phase with the current in the running winding. 
This condition produces, in effect, a rotating field and 
the rotor revolves. A centrifugal switch disconnects the 
starting winding automatically after the rotor has attained 
approximately 25 percent of its rated speed.
Capacitor Start Motor
With the development of high-capacity electrolytic 
capacitors, a variation of the split-phase motor known as the 
capacitor start motor, has been made. Nearly all fractional 
horsepower motors in use today on refrigerators and other 
similar appliances are of this type. [Figure 12-311] In this 
adaptation, the starting winding and running winding have 
the same size and resistance value. The phase shift between 
currents of the two windings is obtained by using capacitors 
connected in series with the starting winding.
Capacitor start motors have a starting torque comparable to 
their torque at rated speed and can be used in applications 
where the initial load is heavy. Again, a centrifugal switch 
is required for disconnecting the starting winding when the 
rotor speed is approximately 25 percent of the rated speed.
Although some single-phase induction motors are rated as 
high as 2 horsepower (hp), the major field of application is 
1 hp, or less, at a voltage rating of 115 volts for the smaller 
sizes and 110 to 220 volts for one-fourth hp and up. For even 
larger power ratings, polyphase motors generally are used, 
since they have excellent starting torque characteristics.
Direction of Rotation of Induction Motors
The direction of rotation of a three-phase induction motor 
can be changed by simply reversing two of the leads to the 
motor. The same effect can be obtained in a two-phase motor 
by reversing connections to one phase. In a single-phase 
motor, reversing connections to the starting winding reverses 
the direction of rotation.
Most single-phase motors designed for general application 
have provision for readily reversing connections to the 
starting winding. Nothing can be done to a shaded pole motor 
to reverse the direction of rotation because the direction is 
determined by the physical location of the copper shading 
ring. If, after starting, one connection to a three-phase motor 
is broken, the motor continues to run but delivers only 
one-third the rated power. Also, a two-phase motor runs at 
one-half its rated power if one phase is disconnected. Neither

===== PDF-side 592 =====

12-151
A B
Aluminum or copper bars
Shaft
Weld at all jointsWelds holding copper or
aluminum bars to end ring
Aluminum or 
copper end ring
Iron core
Figure 12-308. Squirrel cage rotor for an AC induction motor.
Shaded poles
Shaded poles
Figure 12-309. Shaded pole induction motor.
motor starts under these abnormal conditions.
Synchronous Motor
The synchronous motor is one of the principal types of AC 
motors. Like the induction motor, the synchronous motor 
makes use of a rotating magnetic field. Unlike the induction 
motor, however, the torque developed does not depend on 
the induction of currents in the rotor. Briefly, the principle of 
operation of the synchronous motor is as follows: A multiphase 
source of AC is applied to the stator windings, and a rotating 
magnetic field is produced. A direct current is applied to the 
rotor winding, and another magnetic field is produced. The 
synchronous motor is so designed and constructed that these 
two fields react to each other in such a manner that the rotor 
is dragged along and rotates at the same speed as the rotating 
magnetic field produced by the stator windings.
An understanding of the operation of the synchronous 
motor can be obtained by considering the simple motor of 
Figure 12-312. Assume that poles A and B are being rotated 
clockwise by some mechanical means in order to produce 
a rotating magnetic field. They induce poles of opposite 
polarity in the soft iron rotor, and forces of attraction exist 
between corresponding North and South poles.
Consequently, as poles A and B rotate, the rotor is dragged 
along at the same speed. However, if a load is applied to the 
rotor shaft, the rotor axis momentarily falls behind that of the 
rotating field but, thereafter, continues to rotate with the field 
at the same speed as long as the load remains constant. If the 
load is too large, the rotor pulls out of synchronism with the 
rotating field and, as a result, no longer rotates with the field 
at the same speed. Thus, the motor is said to be overloaded.
Such a simple motor as shown in Figure 12-312 is never used. 
The idea of using some mechanical means of rotating the poles 
is impractical because another motor would be required to 
perform this work. Also, such an arrangement is unnecessary 
because a rotating magnetic field can be produced electrically 
by using phased AC voltages. In this respect, the synchronous 
motor is similar to the induction motor.
The synchronous motor consists of a stator field winding 
similar to that of an induction motor. The stator winding 
produces a rotating magnetic field. The rotor may be a 
permanent magnet, as in small, single-phase synchronous 
motors used for clocks and other small precision equipment, 
or it may be an electromagnet, energized from a DC source of 
power and fed through slip rings into the rotor field coils, as 
in an alternator. In fact, an alternator may be operated either 
as an alternator or a synchronous motor.

===== PDF-side 593 =====

12-152
Shaded pole
Rotor
Figure 12-310. Diagram of a shaded pole motor.
Since a synchronous motor has little starting torque, some 
means must be provided to bring it up to synchronous speed. 
The most common method is to start the motor at no load, 
allow it to reach full speed, and then energize the magnetic 
field. The magnetic field of the rotor locks with the magnetic 
field of the stator and the motor operates at synchronous speed.
The magnitude of the induced poles in the rotor shown in 
Figure 12-313 is so small that sufficient torque cannot be 
developed for most practical loads. To avoid such a limitation 
on motor operation, a winding is placed on the rotor and 
energized with DC. A rheostat placed in series with the DC 
source provides the operator of the machine with a means 
of varying the strength of the rotor poles, thus placing the 
motor under control for varying loads.
The synchronous motor is not a self-starting motor. The 
rotor is heavy and, from a dead stop, it is impossible to 
bring the rotor into magnetic lock with the rotating magnetic 
field. For this reason, all synchronous motors have some 
kind of starting device. One type of simple starter is 
another motor, either AC or DC, which brings the rotor up 
to approximately 90 percent of its synchronous speed. The 
starting motor is then disconnected, and the rotor locks in 
step with the rotating field. Another starting method is a 
second winding of the squirrel cage type on the rotor. This 
induction winding brings the rotor almost to synchronous 
speed, and when the DC is connected to the rotor windings, 
the rotor pulls into step with the field. The latter method is 
the more commonly used.
AC Series Motor
An AC-series motor is a single-phase motor, but is not an 
induction or synchronous motor. It resembles a DC motor in 
that it has brushes and a commutator. The AC-series motor 
operates on either AC or DC circuits. Remember that the 
direction of rotation of a DC-series motor is independent 
of the polarity of the applied voltage, provided the field 
and armature connections remain unchanged. Hence, if a 
DC-series motor is connected to an AC source, a torque is 
developed that tends to rotate the armature in one direction. 
However, a DC-series motor does not operate satisfactorily 
from an AC supply for the following reasons:
1. The alternating flux sets up large eddy current and 
hysteresis losses in the unlaminated portions of the 
magnetic circuit and causes excessive heating and 
reduced efficiency.
2. The self-induction of the field and armature windings 
causes a low power factor.
3. The alternating field flux establishes large currents in 
the coils, which are short circuited by the brushes; this 
action causes excessive sparking at the commutator.
To design a series motor for satisfactory operation on AC, 
the following changes are made:
1. The eddy current losses are reduced by laminating the 
field poles, frame, and armature.
2. Hysteresis losses are minimized by using high 
permeability, transformer-type, silicon steel 
laminations.
3. The reactance of the field windings is kept satisfactorily 
low by using shallow pole pieces, few turns of wire, 
low frequency (usually 25 cycles for large motors), 
low flux density, and low reluctance (a short air gap).
4. The reactance of the armature is reduced by using a 
compensating winding embedded in the pole pieces. If 
the compensating winding is connected in series with 
the armature, as shown in Figure 12-314, the armature 
is conductively compensated.
 If the compensating winding is designed as shown 
in Figure 12-315 , the armature is inductively 
compensated. If the motor is designed for operation 
on both DC and AC circuits, the compensating winding 
is connected in series with the armature. The axis of 
the compensating winding is displaced from the main 
field axis by an angle of 90°. This arrangement is 
similar to the compensating winding used in some DC 
motors and generators to overcome armature reaction. 
The compensating winding establishes a counter 
magnetomotive force, neutralizing the effect of the 
armature magnetomotive force, preventing distortion 
of the main field flux, and reducing the armature 
reactance. The inductively compensated armature 
acts like the primary of a transformer, the secondary

===== PDF-side 594 =====

12-153
N
S
SNAlternator
Centrifugal switch
Winding 2 (Running winding)
Winding 1 (Starting winding)
Capacitor
Figure 12-311. Single-phase motor with capacitor starting winding.
Rotating pole 
structure
Rotating pole 
structure
Rotor
Rotor axis
B
S
N
A
S
N
Induced poles Rotor shaft
Figure 12-312. Illustrating the operation of a synchronous motor.
of which is the shorted compensating winding. The 
shorted secondary receives an induced voltage by the 
action of the alternating armature flux, and the resulting 
current flowing through the turns of the compensating 
winding establishes the opposing magnetomotive force, 
neutralizing the armature reactance.
5. Sparking at the commutator is reduced by the use of 
preventive leads P1, P2, P3, and so forth, as shown in 
Figure 12-316, where a ring armature is shown for 
simplicity. When coils at A and B are shorted by the 
brushes, the induced current is limited by the relatively 
high resistance of the leads. Sparking at the brushes 
is also reduced by using armature coils having only a 
single turn and multipolar fields. High torque is obtained 
by having a large number of armature conductors and 
a large diameter armature. Thus, the commutator has 
a large number of very thin commutator bars and the 
armature voltage is limited to about 250 volts.
Fractional horsepower AC series motors are called universal 
motors. They do not have compensating windings or 
preventive leads. They are used extensively to operate fans 
and portable tools, such as drills, grinders, and saws.
Maintenance of AC Motors
The inspection and maintenance of AC motors is very simple. 
The bearings may or may not need frequent lubrication. If 
they are the sealed type, lubricated at the factory, they require 
no further attention. Be sure the coils are kept dry and free 
from oil or other abuse. The temperature of a motor is usually 
its only limiting operating factor. A good rule of thumb is that 
a temperature too hot for the hand is too high for safety. Next 
to the temperature, the sound of a motor or generator is the 
best trouble indicator. When operating properly, it should hum 
evenly. If it is overloaded it “grunts.” A three-phase motor

===== PDF-side 595 =====

12-154
Three-phase winding produces 
a rotating magnetic field
Slip rings
+
N
N
S S
–
Figure 12-313. Synchronous motor.
with one lead disconnected refuses to turn and “growls.” A 
knocking sound generally indicates a loose armature coil, 
a shaft out of alignment, or armature dragging because of 
worn bearings. In all cases, the inspection and maintenance 
of all AC motors should be performed in accordance with 
the applicable manufacturer’s instructions.
Alternators
Basic Alternators & Classifications
An electrical generator is a machine that converts mechanical 
energy into electrical energy by electromagnetic induction. 
A generator that produces alternating current is referred to 
as an AC generator and, through combination of the words 
“alternating” and “generator,” the word “alternator” has come 
into widespread use. In some areas, the word “alternator” is 
applied only to small AC generators. This handbook treats 
the two terms synonymously and uses the term “alternator” 
to distinguish between AC and DC generators.
The major difference between an alternator [Figure 12-317] 
and a DC generator is the method of connection to the 
external circuit. The alternator is connected to the external 
circuit by slip rings, but the DC generator is connected by 
a commutator.
Method of Excitation
One means of classification is by the type of excitation system 
used. In alternators used on aircraft, excitation can be affected 
by one of the following methods:
1. A direct connected, DC generator. This system consists 
of a DC generator fixed on the same shaft with the 
AC generator. A variation of this system is a type of 
alternator that uses DC from the battery for excitation, 
after which the alternator is self-excited.
2. By transformation and rectification from the AC 
system. This method depends on residual magnetism 
for initial AC voltage buildup, after which the field is 
supplied with rectified voltage from the AC generator.
3. Integrated brushless type. This arrangement has a DC 
generator on the same shaft with an AC generator. 
The excitation circuit is completed through silicon 
rectifiers rather than a commutator and brushes. The 
rectifiers are mounted on the generator shaft and 
their output is fed directly to the AC generator’s main 
rotating field.
Number of Phases
Another method of classification is by the number of phases 
of output voltage. AC generators may be single-phase, 
two-phase, three-phase, or even six-phase and more. In the

===== PDF-side 596 =====

12-155
Compensating
winding
Main field
Compensating
winding
Main field
Figure 12-314. Conductively compensated armature of AC series 
motor.
Figure 12-315.  Inductively compensated armature of AC series 
motor.
electrical systems of aircraft, the three-phase alternator is by 
far the most common.
Armature or Field Rotation
Still another means of classification is by the type of stator 
and rotor used. From this standpoint, there are two types of 
alternators: the revolving armature-type and the revolving 
field-type. The revolving armature alternator is similar in 
construction to the DC generator in that the armature rotates 
through a stationary magnetic field. The revolving armature 
alternator is found only in alternators of low-power rating 
and generally is not used. In the DC generator, the EMF 
generated in the armature windings is converted into a 
unidirectional voltage (DC) by means of the commutator. 
In the revolving armature-type of alternator, the generated 
AC voltage is applied unchanged to the load by means of 
slip rings and brushes.
The revolving field type of alternator has a stationary 
armature winding (stator) and a rotating field winding 
(rotor). [Figure 12-318] The advantage of having a stationary 
armature winding is that the armature can be connected 
directly to the load without having sliding contacts in the 
load circuit. A rotating armature would require slip rings 
and brushes to conduct the load current from the armature 
to the external circuit. Slip rings have a relatively short 
service life and arc over is a continual hazard; therefore, high 
voltage alternators are usually of the stationary armature, 
rotating field-type. The voltage and current supplied to the 
rotating field are relatively small, and slip rings and brushes 
for this circuit are adequate. The direct connection to the 
armature circuit makes possible the use of large cross-section 
conductors, adequately insulated for high voltage. Since the 
rotating field alternator is used almost universally in aircraft 
systems, this type is explained in detail, as a single-phase, 
two-phase, and three-phase alternator.
Single-Phase Alternator
Since the EMF induced in the armature of a generator is 
alternating, the same sort of winding can be used on an 
alternator as on a DC generator. This type of alternator is 
known as a single-phase alternator, but since the power 
delivered by a single-phase circuit is pulsating, this type of 
circuit is objectionable in many applications.
A single-phase alternator has a stator made up of a number of 
windings in series, forming a single circuit in which an output 
voltage is generated. [Figure 12-319] The stator has four polar 
groups evenly spaced around the stator frame. The rotor has 
four poles with adjacent poles of opposite polarity. As the rotor 
revolves, AC voltages are induced in the stator windings. Since 
one rotor pole is in the same position relative to a stator winding 
as any other rotor pole, all stator polar groups are cut by equal 
numbers of magnetic lines of force at any time.
As a result, the voltages induced in all the windings have 
the same amplitude, or value, at any given instant. The four 
stator windings are connected to each other so that the AC 
voltages are in phase or “series adding.” Assume that rotor 
pole 1, a South pole, induces a voltage in the direction 
indicated by the arrow in stator winding 1. Since rotor 
pole 2 is a North pole, it induces a voltage in the opposite 
direction in stator coil 2 with respect to that in coil 1. For 
the two induced voltages to be in series addition, the two 
coils are connected as shown in Figure 12-319 . Applying 
the same reasoning, the voltage induced in stator coil 
3 (clockwise rotation of the field) is the same direction 
(counterclockwise) as the voltage induced in coil 1.

===== PDF-side 597 =====

12-156
A
B
P9
P8
P7
P6
P5
P4
P3
P2
P1
Figure 12-316. Preventive coils in AC series motor.
Figure 12-317.  Belt driven alternator for small single-engine 
aircraft.
Similarly, the direction of the voltage induced in winding 
4 is opposite to the direction of the voltage induced in coil 
1. All four stator coil groups are connected in series so that 
the voltages induced in each winding add to give a total 
voltage that is four times the voltage in any one winding.
Two-Phase Alternator
Two-phase alternators have two or more single-phase windings 
spaced symmetrically around the stator. In a two-phase 
alternator, there are two single-phase windings spaced physically 
so that the AC voltage induced in one is 90° out of phase with 
the voltage induced in the other. The windings are electrically 
separate from each other. When one winding is being cut by 
maximum flux, the other is being cut by no flux. This condition 
establishes a 90° relation between the two phases.
Three-Phase Alternator
A three-phase, or polyphase circuit, is used in most aircraft 
alternators, instead of a single or two-phase alternator. The 
three-phase alternator has three single-phase windings spaced 
so that the voltage induced in each winding is 120° out of 
phase with the voltages in the other two windings. A schematic 
diagram of a three-phase stator showing all the coils becomes 
complex and difficult to see what is actually happening.
A simplified schematic diagram showing each of three 
phases is illustrated in Figure 12-320. The rotor is omitted for 
simplicity. The waveforms of voltage are shown to the right of 
the schematic. The three voltages are 120° apart and are similar 
to the voltages that would be generated by three single-phase 
alternators whose voltages are out of phase by angles of 120°. 
The three phases are independent of each other.
Wye Connection (Three-Phase)
Rather than have six leads from the three-phase alternator, 
one of the leads from each phase may be connected to form 
a common junction. The stator is then called wye or star 
connected. The common lead may or may not be brought out 
of the alternator. If it is brought out, it is called the neutral lead. 
The simplified schematic shows a wye connected stator with 
the common lead not brought out. [Figure 12-321A] Each 
load is connected across two phases in series. Thus, RAB is 
connected across phases A and B in series; RAC is connected 
across phases A and C in series; and RBC is connected across 
phases B and C in series. Therefore, the voltage across each 
load is larger than the voltage across a single phase. The total 
voltage, or line voltage, across any two phases is the vector 
sum of the individual phase voltages. For balanced conditions, 
the line voltage is 1.73 times the phase voltage. Since there is 
only one path for current in a line wire and the phase to which 
it is connected, the line current is equal to the phase current.
Delta Connection (Three-Phase)
A three-phase stator can also be connected so that the phases 
are connected end to end. [Figure 12-321B] This arrangement 
is called a delta connection. In a delta connection, the voltages 
are equal to the phase voltages; the line currents are equal 
to the vector sum of the phase currents; and the line current 
is equal to 1.73 times the phase current when the loads are 
balanced. For equal loads (equal output), the delta connection 
supplies increased line current at a value of line voltage equal 
to phase voltage, and the wye connection supplies increased 
line voltage at a value of line current equal to phase current.
Alternator Rectifier Unit
A type of alternator used in the electrical system of many 
aircraft weighing less than 12,500 pounds is shown in 
Figure 12-322. This type of power source is sometimes called 
a DC generator, since it is used in DC systems. Although its 
output is a DC voltage, it is an alternator rectifier unit. This 
type of alternator rectifier is a self-excited unit but does not 
contain a permanent magnet. The excitation for starting is

===== PDF-side 598 =====

12-157
0
+e
Time axis
–e
N
N
S
S
113 3
2
2
4
4
Figure 12-319. Single-phase alternator.
Rotating field
S N
Armature Circuit
Slip rings
To exciter– +
Figure 12-318. Alternator with stationary armature and rotating 
field.
obtained from the battery; immediately after starting, the unit 
is self-exciting. Cooling air for the alternator is conducted 
into the unit by a blast air tube on the air inlet cover.
The alternator is directly coupled to the aircraft engine by 
means of a flexible drive coupling. The output of the alternator 
portion of the unit is three-phase alternating current, derived 
from a three-phase, delta connected system incorporating a 
three-phase, full-wave bridge rectifier. [Figure 12-323] This 
unit operates in a speed range from 2,100 to 9,000 rpm, with 
a DC output voltage of 26–29 volts and 125 amperes.
Brushless Alternator
This design is more efficient because there are no brushes to 
wear down or to arc at high altitudes. This generator consists of 
a pilot exciter, an exciter, and the main generator system. The 
need for brushes is eliminated by using an integral exciter with 
a rotating armature that has its AC output rectified for the main 
AC field, which is also of the rotating type. [Figure 12-324]
The pilot exciter is an 8-pole, 8,000 rpm, 533 cps, AC 
generator. The pilot exciter field is mounted on the main 
generator rotor shaft and is connected in series with the main 
generator field. The pilot exciter armature is mounted on the 
main generator stator. The AC output of the pilot exciter is 
supplied to the voltage regulator, where it is rectified and 
controlled, and is then impressed on the exciter field winding 
to furnish excitation for the generator.
The exciter is a small AC generator with its field mounted 
on the main generator stator and its three-phase armature 
mounted on the generator rotor shaft. Included in the exciter 
field are permanent magnets mounted on the main generator 
stator between the exciter poles.
The exciter field resistance is temperature compensated by a 
thermistor. This aids regulation by keeping a nearly constant 
resistance at the regulator output terminals. The exciter 
output is rectified and impressed on the main generator 
field and the pilot exciter field. The exciter stator has a 
stabilizing field, which is used to improve stability and to 
prevent voltage regulator over-corrections for changes in 
generator output voltage.
The AC generator shown in Figure 12-324 is a 6-pole, 8,000 
rpm unit having a rating of 31.5 kilovoltamperes (kV A), 
115⁄200 volts, 400 cps. This generator is three-phase, 4 wire, 
wye connected with grounded neutrals. By using an integral 
AC exciter, the necessity for brushes within the generator 
has been eliminated. The AC output of the rotating exciter 
armature is fed directly into the three-phase, full-wave, 
rectifier bridge located inside the rotor shaft, which uses 
high-temperature silicon rectifiers. The DC output from the 
rectifier bridge is fed to the main AC generator rotating field.
V oltage regulation is accomplished by varying the strength 
of the AC exciter stationary fields. Polarity reversals of the 
AC generator are eliminated and radio noise is minimized 
by the absence of the brushes. A noise filter mounted on 
the alternator further reduces any existing radio noise. 
The rotating pole structure of the generator is laminated 
from steel punchings, containing all six poles and a 
connecting hub section. This provides optimum magnetic 
and mechanical properties.
Some alternators are cooled by circulating oil through steel 
tubes. The oil used for cooling is supplied from the constant 
speed drive assembly. Ports located in the flange connecting 
the generator and drive assemblies make oil flow between 
the constant speed drive and the generator possible.

===== PDF-side 599 =====

12-158
Figure 12-322. Exploded view of alternator rectifier.
A
B
C
A
0
+e
–e
B C
Wye connection Delta connection
RB
RAAC
B
RC
RBC
RABAC
B RAC
A B
Figure 12-320. Simplified schematic of three-phase alternator with 
output waveforms.
Figure 12-321. Wye and delta connected alternators.
V oltage is built up by using permanent magnet interpoles in 
the exciter stator. The permanent magnets assure a voltage 
buildup, precluding the necessity of field flashing. The rotor 
of the alternator may be removed without causing loss of the 
alternator’s residual magnetism.
Alternator Frequency
The frequency of the alternator voltage depends upon the 
speed of rotation of the rotor and the number of poles. 
The faster the speed, the higher the frequency; the lower 
the speed, the lower the frequency. The more poles on the 
rotor, the higher the frequency for a given speed. When a 
rotor has rotated through an angle so that two adjacent rotor 
poles (a North and a South pole) have passed one winding, 
the voltage induced in that winding has varied through one 
complete cycle. For a given frequency, the greater the number 
of pairs of poles, the lower the speed of rotation. A two-pole 
alternator rotates at twice the speed of a four-pole alternator 
for the same frequency of generated voltage. The frequency 
of the alternator in cycles per minute (cpm) is related to the 
number of poles and the speed, as expressed by the equation:
F =  ×  = P N PN
N 60 120
Where: P is the number of poles per phase
 f is the frequency in cps
 N is the rated speed in rpm
For example, a 2-pole, 3,600 rpm alternator has a frequency of:
 = 60 cps 2 × 3,600
120
A 4-pole, 1,800 rpm alternator has the same frequency; a 
6-pole, 500 rpm alternator has a frequency of:
 = 25 cps 6 × 500
120
A 12-pole, 4,000 rpm alternator has a frequency of:
 = 400 cps12 × 4,000
120
Starter Generator
Many turbine-powered aircraft use a starter generator that 
acts like a starter during the start of the engine and when the 
engine is online it acts like a Generator. [Figure 12-325] The 
main advantage of the starter generator is saving weight by 
eliminating a separate starter that is only used during the start. 
Initially used on small turboprops and light jets but large units 
are now installed on the B787 aircraft engines to power the 
main engines and power the electrical system.
Alternator Rating
The maximum current that can be supplied by an alternator 
depends upon the maximum heating loss (I2R power loss) that 
can be sustained in the armature and the maximum heating loss 
that can be sustained in the field. The armature current of an 
alternator varies with the load. This action is similar to that of A 
12 pole, 4,000 rpm alternator has a frequency of DC generators. 
In AC generators, however, lagging power factor loads tend 
to demagnetize the field of an alternator, and terminal voltage 
is maintained only by increasing DC field current. For this 
reason, AC generators are usually rated according to kV A, 
power factor, phases, voltage, and frequency. One generator, 
for example, may be rated at 40 kV A, 208 volts, 400 cycles, 
three phase, at 75 percent power factor. The kV A indicates the 
apparent power. This is the kV A output, or the relationship 
between the current and voltage at which the generator is 
intended to operate. The power factor is the expression of the

===== PDF-side 600 =====

12-159
E
B
A
G1 L1
C3
C2
CR4
CR5
CR6
CR1
CR2
CR3
+
+
+
–
Figure 12-323. Wiring diagram of alternator-rectifier unit.
ratio between the apparent power (volt-amperes) and the true 
or effective power (watts). The number of phases is the number 
of independent voltages generated. Three-phase generators 
generate three voltages 120 electrical degrees apart.
Alternator Maintenance
Maintenance and inspection of alternator systems is similar 
to that of DC systems. Check the exciter brushes for wear and 
surfacing. On most large aircraft with two or four alternator 
systems, each power panel has three signal lights, one 
connected to each phase of the power bus, so the lamp lights 
when the panel power is on. The individual buses throughout 
the airplane can be checked by operating equipment from that 
particular bus. Consult the manufacturer’s instructions on 
operation of equipment for the method of testing each bus.
Alternator test stands are used for testing alternators and 
constant speed drives in a repair facility. They are capable of 
supplying power to constant speed drive units at input speeds 
varying from 2,400 rpm to 9,000 rpm.
A typical test stand motor uses 220/440 volt, 60 cycle, 
three-phase power. Blowers for ventilation, oil coolers, 
and necessary meters and switches are integral parts of the 
test stand. A load bank supplies test circuits. An AC motor 
generator set for ground testing is shown in Figure 12-326.
A typical, portable, AC electrical system test set is an 
analyzer, consisting of a multirange ohmmeter, a multirange 
combination AC DC voltmeter, an ammeter with a clip-on 
current transformer, a vibrating reed type frequency meter, 
and an unmounted continuity light.
A portable load bank unit furnishes a load similar to that 
on the airplane for testing alternators, either while mounted 
in the airplane or on the shop test stand. A complete unit 
consists of resistive and reactive loads controlled by selector 
switches and test meters mounted on a control panel. This 
load unit is compact and convenient, eliminating the difficulty 
of operating large loads on the airplane while testing and 
adjusting the alternators and control equipment.
Proper maintenance of an alternator requires that the unit be 
kept clean and that all electrical connections are tight and 
in good repair. If the alternator fails to build up voltage as 
designated by applicable manufacturer’s technical instructions, 
test the voltmeter first by checking the voltages of other 
alternators, or by checking the voltage in the suspected 
alternator with another voltmeter and comparing the results. 
If the voltmeter is satisfactory, check the wiring, the brushes, 
and the drive unit for faults. If this inspection fails to reveal 
the trouble, the exciter may have lost its residual magnetism. 
Residual magnetism is restored to the exciter by flashing the 
field. Follow the applicable manufacturer’s instructions when 
flashing the exciter field. If, after flashing the field, no voltage 
is indicated, replace the alternator, since it is probably faulty.
Clean the alternator exterior with an approved fluid; smooth 
a rough or pitted exciter commutator or slip ring with 000 
sandpaper; then clean and polish with a clean, dry cloth. Check 
the brushes periodically for length and general condition. 
Consult the applicable manufacturer’s instructions on the 
specific alternator to obtain information on the correct brushes.
Regulation of Generator Voltage
Efficient operation of electrical equipment in an airplane 
depends on a constant voltage supply from the generator. 
Among the factors, which determine the voltage output of a 
generator, only one, the strength of the field current, can be 
conveniently controlled. To illustrate this control, refer to the 
diagram in Figure 12-327, showing a simple generator with 
a rheostat in the field circuit. If the rheostat is set to increase 
the resistance in the field circuit, less current flows through 
the field winding and the strength of the magnetic field in 
which the armature rotates decreases. Consequently, the 
voltage output of the generator decreases. If the resistance in 
the field circuit is decreased with the rheostat, more current 
flows through the field windings, the magnetic field becomes 
stronger, and the generator produces a greater voltage.
Voltage Regulation with a Vibrating-Type Regulator
Refer to Figure 12-328 . With the generator running at 
normal speed and switch K open, the field rheostat is 
adjusted so that the terminal voltage is about 60 percent of

===== PDF-side 601 =====

12-160
Stator Terminal block
Terminal block
Oil inlet cover
Rotor
Filter assembly
Ball bearing
F
S
N
S
Stabilizing
field 
 Radio
noise
filter
Thermistor
Exciter
field
E1E2T1T4T3
T6
T5
Main AC
generator
stator
windings 
Main AC
generator
field 
Rotor
 
Pilot exciter
armature
Exciter
armature
3 phase bridge rectifier 
Pilot exciter
field
Figure 12-324. A typical brushless alternator.
normal. Solenoid S is weak and contact B is held closed 
by the spring. When K is closed, a short circuit is placed 
across the field rheostat. This action causes the field current 
to increase and the terminal voltage to rise.
When the terminal voltage rises above a certain critical value, 
the solenoid downward pull exceeds the spring tension and 
contact B opens, thus reinserting the field rheostat in the field 
circuit and reducing the field current and terminal voltage.
When the terminal voltage falls below a certain critical voltage, 
the solenoid armature contact B is closed again by the spring, 
the field rheostat is now shorted, and the terminal voltage starts 
to rise. The cycle repeats with a rapid, continuous action. Thus, 
an average voltage is maintained with or without load change.
The dashpot P provides smoother operation by acting as a 
damper to prevent hunting. The capacitor C across contact B

===== PDF-side 602 =====

12-161
Figure 12-325. Starter generator for small business jet.
eliminates sparking. Added load causes the field rheostat to 
be shorted for a longer period of time and, thus, the solenoid 
armature vibrates more slowly. If the load is reduced and the 
terminal voltage rises, the armature vibrates more rapidly and 
the regulator holds the terminal voltage to a steady value for 
any change in load, from no load to full load, on the generator.
Vibrating-type regulators cannot be used with generators, 
which require a high-field current, since the contacts pit or 
burn. Heavy-duty generator systems require a different type 
of regulator, such as the carbon pile voltage regulator.
Three Unit Regulators
Many light aircraft employ a three unit regulator for their 
generator systems. [Figure 12-329] This type of regulator 
includes a current limiter and a reverse current cut-out in 
addition to a voltage regulator. 
The action of the voltage regulator unit is similar to the 
vibrating-type regulator described earlier. The second of the 
three units is a current regulator to limit the output current 
of the generator. The third unit is a reverse current cut-out 
that disconnects the battery from the generator. If the battery 
is not disconnected, it discharges through the generator 
armature when the generator voltage falls below that of the 
battery, thus driving the generator as a motor. This action is 
called “motoring” the generator and, unless it is prevented, 
it discharges the battery in a short time.
The operation of a three unit regulator is described in the 
following paragraphs. [Figure 12-330]
The action of vibrating contact C1 in the voltage regulator 
unit causes an intermittent short circuit between points R1 and 
L2. When the generator is not operating, spring S1 holds C1 
closed; C2 is also closed by S2. The shunt field is connected 
directly across the armature.
When the generator is started, its terminal voltage rises as 
the generator comes up to speed, and the armature supplies 
the field with current through closed contacts C2 and C1.
As the terminal voltage rises, the current flow through L1 
increases and the iron core becomes more strongly magnetized. 
At a certain speed and voltage, when the magnetic attraction 
on the movable arm becomes strong enough to overcome the 
tension of spring S1, contact points C1 are separated. The field 
current now flows through R1 and L2. Because resistance is 
added to the field circuit, the field is momentarily weakened 
and the rise in terminal voltage is checked. Also, since the 
L2 winding is opposed to the L1 winding, the magnetic pull 
of L1 against S1 is partially neutralized, and spring S1 closes 
contact C1. Therefore, R1 and L2 are again shorted out of 
the circuit, and the field current again increases; the output 
voltage increases, and C1 is opened because of the action of 
L1. The cycle is rapid and occurs many times per second. The 
terminal voltage of the generator varies slightly, but rapidly, 
above and below an average value determined by the tension 
of spring S1, which may be adjusted.
The purpose of the vibrator-type current limiter is to limit the 
output current of the generator automatically to its maximum 
rated value in order to protect the generator. As shown in 
Figure 12-330, L3 is in series with the main line and load. 
Thus, the amount of current flowing in the line determines 
when C2 is opened and R2 placed in series with the generator 
field. By contrast, the voltage regulator is actuated by line 
voltage, whereas the current limiter is actuated by line current. 
Spring S2 holds contact C2 closed until the current through 
the main line and L3 exceeds a certain value, as determined 
by the tension of spring S2, and causes C2 to be opened. 
The increase in current is due to an increase in load. This 
action inserts R2 into the field circuit of the generator and 
decreases the field current and the generated voltage. When 
the generated voltage is decreased, the generator current is 
reduced. The core of L3 is partly demagnetized and the spring 
closes the contact points. This causes the generator voltage 
and current to rise until the current reaches a value sufficient 
to start the cycle again. A certain minimum value of load 
current is necessary to cause the current limiter to vibrate.
The purpose of the reverse current cut-out relay is to 
automatically disconnect the battery from the generator when 
the generator voltage is less than the battery voltage. If this 
device were not used in the generator circuit, the battery 
would discharge through the generator. This would tend 
to make the generator operate as a motor, but because the 
generator is coupled to the engine, it could not rotate such 
a heavy load. Under this condition, the generator windings 
may be severely damaged by excessive current.
There are two windings, L4 and L5, on the soft iron core. The 
current winding, L4, consisting of a few turns of heavy wire, 
is in series with the line and carries the entire line current.

===== PDF-side 603 =====

12-162
Exciter
(if used)
Voltage control
Start-stop pushbutton
Reset button VM
5W
V A W
AM
5W
Alternator
Motor starting panel Alternator control panel
Input terminal Output terminal
Motor
Terminal connections
Current flow
Load
Shunt field
Rheostat
B
+
– A
E
Figure 12-326. AC motor generator set for ground testing.
Figure 12-327. Regulation of generator voltage by field rheostat.
The voltage winding, L5, consisting of a large number of 
turns of fine wire, is shunted across the generator terminals.
When the generator is not operating, the contacts, C3 are held 
open by the spring S3. As the generator voltage builds up, L5 
magnetizes the iron core. When the current (as a result of the 
generated voltage) produces sufficient magnetism in the iron 
core, contact C3 is closed, as shown. The battery then receives 
a charging current. The coil spring, S3, is so adjusted that the 
voltage winding does not close the contact points until the 
voltage of the generator is in excess of the normal voltage of 
the battery. The charging current passing through L4 aids the 
current in L5 to hold the contacts tightly closed. Unlike C1 
and C2, contact C3 does not vibrate. When the generator slows 
down or, for any other cause, the generator voltage decreases 
to a certain value below that of the battery, the current reverses 
through L4 and the ampere turns of L4 oppose those of L5. 
Thus, a momentary discharge current from the battery reduces 
the magnetism of the core and C3 is opened, preventing the 
battery from discharging into the generator and motoring it. 
C3 does not close again until the generator terminal voltage 
exceeds that of the battery by a predetermined value.
Differential Relay Switch
Aircraft electrical systems normally use some type of reverse 
current relay switch, which acts not only as a reverse current 
relay cut-out but also serves as a remote control switch by 
which the generator can be disconnected from the electrical 
system at any time. One type of reverse current relay switch 
operates on the voltage level of the generator, but the type 
most commonly used on large aircraft is the differential 
relay switch, which is controlled by the difference in voltage

===== PDF-side 604 =====

12-163
Load
P
K
C
B
S
Voltage 
regulator
Armature
Shunt
field Storage
battery
Current
limiter
Reverse
current
cut-out
Loads
+
–
+
–
S3
L4L3L1
L2
C1
C2
C3
S1 S2R1
R2
L5
A
Figure 12-328. Vibrating-type voltage regulator.
Figure 12-329. Three unit regulator.
Figure 12-330. Three unit regulator for variable speed generators.
between the battery bus and the generator.
The differential type relay switch connects the generator to 
the main bus bar in the electrical system when the generator 
voltage output exceeds the bus voltage by 0.35 to 0.65 volt. 
It disconnects the generator when a nominal reverse current 
flows from the bus to the generator. The differential relays on 
all the generators of a multiengine aircraft do not close when 
the electrical load is light. For example, in an aircraft having 
a load of 50 amperes, only two or three relays may close. 
If a heavy load is applied, the equalizing circuit lowers the 
voltage of the generators already on the bus and, at the same 
time, raise the voltage of the remaining generators, allowing 
their relays to close. If the generators have been paralleled 
properly, all the relays stay closed until the generator control 
switch is turned off or until the engine speed falls below the 
minimum needed to maintain generator output voltage.
The differential generator control relay shown in Figure 12-331 
is made up of two relays and a coil-operated contactor. One 
relay is the voltage relay and the other is the differential relay. 
Both relays include permanent magnets that pivot between 
the pole pieces of temporary magnets wound with relay coils. 
V oltages of one polarity set up fields about the temporary 
magnets with polarities that cause the permanent magnet to 
move in the direction necessary to close the relay contacts; 
voltages of the opposite polarity establish fields that cause 
the relay contacts to open. The differential relay has two 
coils wound on the same core. The coil-operated contactor, 
called the main contactor, consists of movable contacts that 
are operated by a coil with a movable iron core.
Closing the generator switch on the control panel connects 
the generator output to the voltage relay coil. When generator 
voltage reaches 22 volts, current flows through the coil 
and closes the contacts of the voltage relay. This action 
completes a circuit from the generator to the battery through 
the differential coil.
When the generator voltage exceeds the bus voltage by 
0.35 volt, current flows through the differential coil, the 
differential relay contact closes and, thus, completes the main 
contractor coil circuit. The contacts of the main contactor 
close and connect the generator to the bus.
When the generator voltage drops below the bus (or battery) 
voltage, a reverse current weakens the magnetic field about 
the temporary magnet of the differential relay. The weakened 
field permits a spring to open the differential relay contacts, 
breaking the circuit to the coil of the main contactor relay, 
opening its contacts, and disconnecting the generator from 
the bus. The generator battery circuit may also be broken 
by opening the flight deck control switch, which opens the 
contacts of the voltage relay, causing the differential relay 
coil to be de-energized.
Overvoltage & Field Control Relays
Two other items used with generator control circuits are the 
overvoltage control and the field control relay. As its name 
implies, the overvoltage control protects the system when

===== PDF-side 605 =====

12-164
excessive voltage exists. The overvoltage relay is closed 
when the generator output reaches 32 volts and completes a 
circuit to the trip coil of the field control relay. The closing of 
the field control relay trip circuit opens the shunt field circuit 
and completes it through a resistor, causing generator voltage 
to drop; also, the generator switch circuit and the equalizer 
circuit (multiengine aircraft) are opened. An indicator light 
circuit is completed, warning that an overvoltage condition 
exists. A “reset” position of the flight deck switch is used 
to complete a reset coil circuit in the field control relay, 
returning the relay to its normal position.
Generator Control Units (GCU)
Basic Functions of a Generator Control Unit (GCU)
The generator control unit (GCU) is more commonly found 
on turbine power aircraft. The most basic GCU perform a 
number of functions related to the regulation, sensing, and 
protection of the DC generation system. [Figure 12-332]
Voltage Regulation
The most basic of the GCU functions is that of voltage 
regulation. Regulation of any kind requires the regulation unit 
to take a sample of an output and to compare that sample with 
a controlled reference. If the sample taken falls outside of the 
limits set by the reference, then the regulation unit must provide 
an adjustment to the unit generating the output so as to diminish 
or increase the output levels. In the case of the GCU, the output 
voltage from a generator is sensed by the GCU and compared 
to a reference voltage. If there is any difference between the 
two, the error is usually amplified and then sent back to the field 
excitation control portion of the circuit. The field excitation 
control then makes voltage⁄excitation adjustments in the field 
winding of the generator in order to bring the output voltage 
back into required bus tolerances.
Overvoltage Protection
Like the voltage regulation feature of the GCU, the 
overvoltage protection system compares the sampled voltage 
to reference voltage. The output of the overvoltage protection 
circuit is used to open the relay that controls the output for the 
field excitation. These types of faults can occur for a number 
of reasons. The most common, however, is the failure of the 
voltage regulation circuit in the GCU.
Parallel Generator Operations
The paralleling feature of the GCU allows for two or more 
GCU/generator systems to work in a shared effort to provide 
current to the aircraft electrical system. Comparing voltages 
between the equalizer bus and the interpole/compensator 
voltage, and amplifying the differences accomplishes the 
control of this system. The difference is then sent to the 
voltage regulation circuit, where adjustments are then made 
in the regulation output. These adjustments continue until all 
of the busses are equalized in their load sharing.
Over-Excitation Protection
When a GCU in a paralleled system fails, a situation can 
occur where one of the generators becomes overexcited and 
tries to carry more than its share of the load, if not all of 
the loads. When this condition is sensed on the equalizing 
bus, the faulted generation control system shuts down 
by receiving a de-excitation signal. This signal is then 
transmitted to the overvoltage circuit, and then opens the 
field excitation output circuit.
Differential Voltage
When the GCU allows the logic output to close the generator 
line contactor, the generator voltage must be within a close 
tolerance of the load bus. If the output is not within the 
specified tolerance, then the contactor is not allowed to 
connect the generator to the bus.
Reverse Current Sensing
If the generator is unable to maintain the required voltage 
level, it eventually begins to draw current instead of providing 
it. In this case, the faulty generator is seen as a load to the 
other generators and will need to be removed from the 
bus. Once the generator is off-line, it is not permitted to be 
reconnected to the bus until such time that the generator faults 
are cleared and the generator is capable of providing a current 
to the bus. In most cases, the differential voltage circuit and 
the reverse current sensing circuit are one in the same.
Alternator Constant Speed Drive System
Alternators are not always connected directly to the airplane 
engine like DC generators. Since the various electrical 
devices operating on AC supplied by alternators are designed 
to operate at a certain voltage and at a specified frequency, 
the speed of the alternators must be constant; however, the 
speed of an airplane engine varies. Therefore, the engine, 
through a constant speed drive installed between the engine 
and the alternator, drives some alternators.
A typical hydraulic-type drive is shown in Figure 12-333. 
The following discussion of a constant speed drive system 
is based on such a drive found on large multiengine aircraft.
The constant speed drive is a hydraulic transmission that may 
be controlled either electrically or mechanically.
The constant speed drive assembly is designed to deliver an 
output of 6,000 rpm, provided the input remains between 
2,800 and 9,000 rpm. If the input, which is determined by 
engine speed, is below 6,000 rpm, the drive increases the 
speed in order to furnish the desired output. This stepping 
up of speed is known as overdrive.

===== PDF-side 606 =====

12-165
Gen. Batt.
N
S N
N
S
S
SW
N
Reverse current coil
Main contractor
Permanent magnet
Temporary magnet
Differential coil
Pivot
Pivot
Differential relay contacts Voltage relay contacts
Temporary magnet
Voltage relay coil
Permanent magnet
Figure 12-331. Differential generator control relay.
In overdrive, an automobile engine operates at about the 
same rpm at 60 mph as it does in conventional drive at 49 
mph. In aircraft, this principle is applied in the same manner. 
The constant speed drive enables the alternator to produce 
the same frequency at slightly above engine idle rpm as it 
would at takeoff or cruising rpm.
With the input speed to the drive set at 6,000 rpm, the output 
speed is the same. This is known as straight drive and might 
be compared to an automobile in high gear. However, when 
the input speed is greater than 6,000 rpm, it must be reduced 
to provide an output of 6,000 rpm. This is called underdrive, 
which is comparable to an automobile in low gear. Thus, the 
large input, caused by high engine rpm, is reduced to give 
the desired alternator speed.
As a result of this control by the constant speed drive, the 
frequency output of the generator varies from 420 cps at no 
load to 400 cps under full load. This, in brief, is the function 
of the constant speed drive assembly. Before discussing 
the various units and circuits, the overall operation of the 
transmission should be discussed as follows.
Hydraulic Transmission
The transmission is mounted between the generator and the 
aircraft engine. Its name denotes that hydraulic oil is used, 
although some transmissions may use engine oil. Refer to the 
cutaway view of such a transmission in Figure 12-334. The 
input shaft D is driven from the drive shaft on the accessory 
section of the engine. The output drive F, on the opposite end 
of the transmission, engages the drive shaft of the generator.
The input shaft is geared to the rotating cylinder block gear, 
which it drives, as well as to the makeup and scavenger 
gear pumps E.
The makeup (charge) pump delivers oil (300 psi) to the pump 
and motor cylinder block, to the governor system, and to the 
pressurized case, whereas the scavenger pump returns the oil 
to the external reservoir.
The rotating cylinder assembly B consists of the pump and 
motor cylinder blocks, which are bolted to opposite sides of 
a port plate. The two other major parts are the motor wobbler 
A and the pump wobbler C. The governor system is the unit 
at the top of the left side in Figure 12-334.
The cylinder assembly has two primary units. The block 
assembly of one of the units, the pump, contains 14 cylinders, 
each of which has a piston and pushrod. Charge pressure from 
the makeup pump is applied to each piston in order to force 
it outward against the pushrod. It, in turn, is pushed against 
the pump wobble plate.
If the plate remained as shown in Figure 12-335A, each of the 
14 cylinders would have equal pressure, and all pistons would 
be in the same relative position in their respective cylinders. 
But with the plate tilted, the top portion moves outward and 
the lower portion inward. [Figure 12-335B] As a result, more 
oil enters the interior of the upper cylinder, but oil is forced 
from the cylinder of the bottom piston.
If the pump block were rotated while the plate remained 
stationary, the top piston would be forced inward because of 
the angle of the plate. This action would cause the oil confined 
within the cylinder to be subjected to increased pressure great

===== PDF-side 607 =====

12-166
Figure 12-332. Generator Control Unit (GCU).
enough to force it into the motor cylinder block assembly.
Before explaining what the high-pressure oil in the motor 
unit does, it is necessary to know something about this part 
of the rotating cylinder block assembly. The motor block 
assembly has 16 cylinders, each with its piston and pushrod. 
These are constantly receiving charge pressure of 300 psi. 
The position of the piston depends upon the point at which 
each pushrod touches the motor wobble plate. These rods 
cause the wobble plate to rotate by the pressure they exert 
against its sloping surface.
The piston and pushrod of the motor are pushed outward as 
oil is forced through the motor valve plate from the pump 
cylinder. The pushrods are forced against the motor wobble 
plate, which is free to rotate but cannot change the angle at 
which it is set. Since the pushrods cannot move sideways, 
the pressure exerted against the motor wobble plate’s sloping 
face causes it to rotate.
In the actual transmission, there is an adjustable wobble plate. 
The control cylinder assembly determines the tilt of the pump 
wobble plate. For example, it is set at an angle, which causes 
the motor cylinders to turn the motor wobble plate faster than 
the motor assembly if the transmission is in overdrive. The 
greater pressure in the pump and motor cylinders produces 
the result described.
With the transmission in underdrive, the angle is arranged so 
there is a reduction in pumping action. The subsequent slippage 
between the pushrods and motor wobble plate reduces the 
output speed of the transmission. When the pump wobble plate 
is not at an angle, the pumping action is at a minimum and 
the transmission has what is known as hydraulic lock. For this 
condition, the input and output speed is about the same, and 
the transmission is considered to be in straight drive.
To prevent the oil temperature from becoming excessively 
high within the cylinder block, the makeup pressure pump 
forces oil through the center of this block and the pressure 
relief valve. From this valve, the oil flows into the bottom 
of the transmission case. A scavenger pump removes the 
oil from the transmission case and circulates it through the 
oil cooler and filters before returning it to the reservoir. At 
the start of the cycle, oil is drawn from the reservoir, passed 
through a filter, and forced into the cylinder block by the 
makeup pressure pump.
The clutch, located in the output gear and clutch assembly, 
is an overrunning one way, sprag-type device. Its purpose 
is to ratchet if the alternator becomes motorized; otherwise, 
the alternator might turn the engine. Furthermore, the clutch 
provides a positive connection when the transmission is 
driving the alternator.
There is another unit of the drive that must be discussed—the 
governor system. The governor system, which consists of a 
hydraulic cylinder with a piston, is electrically controlled. Its 
duty is to regulate oil pressure flowing to the control cylinder 
assembly. [Figure 12-336]
The center of the system’s hydraulic cylinder is slotted so the 
arm of the pump wobble plate can be connected to the piston. 
As oil pressure moves the piston, the pump wobble plate is 
placed in either overspeed, underspeed, or straight drive.
Figure 12-337  shows the electrical circuit used to 
govern the speed of the transmission. First, the main 
points of the complete electrical control circuit are 
discussed. [Figures 12-337 and 12-338] For simplification, 
two portions, the overspeed circuit and the load division 
circuit, are considered as individual circuits.
Note, in Figure 12-337 , that the circuit has a valve and 
solenoid assembly (O) and a control cylinder (E), and that 
it contains such units as the tachometer generator (D), the 
rectifier (C), and adjustable resistor (B), rheostat (A), and 
the control coil (Q).

===== PDF-side 608 =====

12-167
Figure 12-333. Constant speed drive.
Since it is driven by a drive gear in the transmission, the 
tachometer (often called tach) generator, a three-phase unit, 
has a voltage proportional to the speed of the output drive. 
The rectifier changes its voltage from AC to DC. After 
rectification, the current flows through the resistor, rheostat, 
and valve and solenoid. Each of these units is connected in 
series. [Figure 12-338]
Under normal operating conditions, the output of the tach 
generator causes just enough current to enter the valve and 
solenoid coil to set up a magnetic field of sufficient strength 
to balance the spring force in the valve. When the alternator 
speed increases as the result of a decrease in load, the tach 
generator output also increases. Because of the greater output, 
the coil in the solenoid is sufficiently strengthened to overcome 
the spring force. Thus, the valve moves and, as a result, oil 
pressure enters the reduced speed side of the control cylinder.
In turn, the pressure moves the piston, causing the angle of 
the pump wobble plate to be reduced. The oil on the other 
side of the piston is forced back through the valve into the 
system return. Since the angle of the pump wobble plate is 
smaller, there is less pumping action in the transmission. The 
result is decreased output speed. To complete the cycle, the 
procedure is reversed.
With the output speed reduction, tach generator output 
decreases; consequently, the flow of current to the solenoid 
diminishes. Therefore, the magnetic field of the solenoid 
becomes so weak that the spring is able to overcome it and 
reposition the valve.
If a heavy load is put on the AC generator, its speed decreases. 
The generator is not driven directly by the engine; the 
hydraulic drive allows slippage. This decrease causes the 
output of the tach generator to taper off and, as a result, 
weakens the magnetic field of the solenoid coil. The spring 
in the solenoid moves the valve and allows oil pressure to 
enter the increase side of the control cylinder and the output 
speed of the transmission is raised.
There are still two important circuits that must be discussed: 
the overspeed circuit and the load division circuit. The 
generator is prevented from overspeeding by a centrifugal 
switch (S) in Figure 12-339 and the overspeed solenoid coil 
(R), which is located in the solenoid and valve assembly. 
The centrifugal switch is on the transmission and is driven 
through the same gear arrangement as the tach generator.

===== PDF-side 609 =====

12-168
AB
E
C
D F
Figure 12-334. Cutaway of a hydraulic transmission.
The aircraft DC system furnishes the power to operate the 
overspeed coil in the solenoid and coil assembly. If the 
output speed of the transmission reaches a speed of 7,000 
to 7,500 rpm, the centrifugal switch closes the DC circuit 
and energizes the overspeed solenoid. This component then 
moves the valve and engages the latch that holds the valve 
in the underdrive position. To release the latch, energize the 
underdrive release solenoid.
The load division circuit’s function is to equalize the loads 
placed on each of the alternators, which is necessary to 
assure that each alternator assumes its share; otherwise, 
one alternator might be overloaded while another would be 
carrying only a small load.
In Figure 12-340, one phase of the alternator provides power 
for the primary in transformer (G), whose secondary supplies 
power to the primaries of two other transformers (J 1 and 
J2). Rectifiers (K) then change the output of the transformer 
secondaries from AC to DC.
The function of the two capacitors (L) is to smooth out the 
DC pulsations.
The output of the current transformer (F) depends upon the 
amount of current flowing in the line of one phase. In this 
way, it measures the real load of the generator. The output 
voltage of the current transformer is applied across resistor 
(H). This voltage is added vectorially to the voltage applied 
to the upper winding of transformer (J) by the output of 
transformer (F). At the same time as it adds vectorially to 
the upper winding of transformer (J), it subtracts vectorially 
from the voltage applied to the lower winding of (J).
This voltage addition and subtraction depends on the real load 
of the generator. The amount of real load determines the phase

===== PDF-side 610 =====

12-169
A B
Figure 12-335. Wobble plate position.
angle and the amount of voltage impressed across resistor (H). 
The greater the real load, the greater the voltage across (H), and 
hence, the greater the difference between the voltages applied 
to the two primaries of transformer (J). The unequal voltages 
applied to resistor (M) by the secondaries of transformer (J) 
cause a current flow through the control coil (P).
The control coil is wound so that its voltage supplements 
the voltage for the control coil in the valve and solenoid 
assembly. The resulting increased voltage moves the valve 
and slows down the generator’s speed. Why should the speed 
be decreased if the load has been increased? Actually, systems 
using only one generator would not have decreased speed, 
but for those having two or more generators, a decrease is 
necessary to equalize the loads.
The load division circuit is employed only when two or more 
generators supply power. In such systems, the control coils 
are connected in parallel. If the source voltage for one of these 
becomes higher than the others, it determines the direction of 
current flow throughout the entire load division circuit. As 
explained before, the real load on the generator determines 
the amount of voltage on the control coil; therefore, the 
generator with the highest real load has the highest voltage. 
As shown in Figure 12-341, current through No. 1 control 
coil, where the largest load exists, aids the control coil of the 
valve and solenoid, thereby slowing down the generator. (The 
source voltage of the control coils is represented by battery 
symbols in Figure 12-341.) The current in the remaining 
control coils opposes the control coil of the valve and 
solenoid, in order to increase the speed of the other generators 
so the load is more evenly distributed.
On some drives, instead of an electrically-controlled 
governor, a flyweight-type governor is employed, which 
consists of a recess-type revolving valve driven by the 
output shaft of the drive, flyweights, two coil springs, and 
a nonrotating valve stem. Centrifugal force, acting on the 
governor flyweights, causes them to move outward, lifting 
the valve stem against the opposition of a coil spring.
The valve stem position controls the directing of oil to the 
two oil outlines. If the output speed tends to exceed 6,000 
rpm, the flyweights lift the valve stem to direct more oil to 
the side of the control piston, causing the piston to move in a 
direction to reduce the pump wobble plate angle. If the speed 
drops below 6,000 rpm, oil is directed to the control piston 
so that it moves to increase the wobble plate angle.
Overspeed protection is installed in the governor. The drive 
starts in the underdrive position. The governor coil springs 
are fully extended and the valve stem is held at the limit of 
its downward travel. In this condition, pressure is directed 
to the side of the control piston giving minimum wobble 
plate angle. The maximum angle side of the control piston 
is open to the hollow stem. As the input speed increases, the 
flyweights start to move outward to overcome the spring bias. 
This action lifts the valve stem and starts directing oil to the 
maximum side of the control piston, while the minimum side 
is opened to the hollow stem.
At about 6,000 rpm, the stem is positioned to stop drainage 
of either side, and the two pressures seek a balance point as

===== PDF-side 611 =====

12-170
Generator
E
D
C B
A
O
P
Q
R
Latch
Oil out
Oil in
Constant 
speed drive
Figure 12-337. Electrical hydraulic control circuit.
Figure 12-336. Control cylinder.
the flyweight force is balanced against the spring bias. Thus, 
a mechanical failure in the governor causes an underdrive 
condition. The flyweight’s force is always tending to move 
the valve stem to the decrease speed position so that, if the 
coil spring breaks and the stem moves to the extreme position 
in that direction, output speed is reduced. If the input to the 
governor fails, the spring forces the stem all the way to the 
start position to obtain minimum output speed.

===== PDF-side 612 =====

12-171
Generator
To load
F
E
G
H
D
C B
A
S
J
J
K
K
N
N
O
P
Q
R
L
L
Latch
Oil out
Oil in
Constant 
speed drive
Figure 12-338. Speed control circuit.
An adjustment screw on the end of the governor regulates 
the output speed of the constant speed drive. This adjustment 
increases or decreases the compression of a coil spring, 
opposing the action of the flyweights. The adjustment 
screws turn in an indented collar, which provides a means of 
making speed adjustments in known increments. Each “click” 
provides a small change in generator frequency.
The constant speed drive (CSD) can be an independent unit 
or mounted within the alternator housing. When the CSD and 
the alternator are contained within one unit, the assembly is 
known as an integrated drive generator (IDG). 
Voltage Regulation of Alternators
The problem of voltage regulation in an AC system does not 
differ basically from that in a DC system. In each case, the 
function of the regulator system is to control voltage, maintain 
a balance of circulating current throughout the system, and 
eliminate sudden changes in voltage (anti-hunting) when a 
load is applied to the system. However, there is one important 
difference between the regulator system of DC generators 
and alternators operated in a parallel configuration. The load 
carried by any particular DC generator in either a two or four 
generator system depends on its voltage as compared with the 
bus voltage, while the division of load between alternators 
depends upon the adjustments of their speed governors, 
which are controlled by the frequency and droop circuits 
discussed in the previous section on alternator constant-speed 
drive systems.
When AC generators are operated in parallel, frequency and 
voltage must both be equal. Where a synchronizing force is 
required to equalize only the voltage between DC generators, 
synchronizing forces are required to equalize both voltage and 
speed (frequency) between AC generators. On a comparative 
basis, the synchronizing forces for AC generators are much 
greater than for DC generators. When AC generators are of 
sufficient size and are operating at unequal frequencies and 
terminal voltages, serious damage may result if they are 
suddenly connected to each other through a common bus. To 
avoid this, the generators must be synchronized as closely as 
possible before connecting them together.
Regulating the voltage output of a DC exciter, which 
supplies current to the alternator rotor field, best controls 
the output voltage of an alternator. This is accomplished 
by the regulation of a 28-volt system connected in the field 
circuit of the exciter. A regulator controls the exciter field 
current and thus regulates the exciter output voltage applied

===== PDF-side 613 =====

12-172
O
P
Q
R
S
Latch
Oil out
Oil in
Figure 12-339. Overspeed circuit.
to the alternator field.
Alternator Transistorized Regulators
Many aircraft alternator systems use a transistorized voltage 
regulator to control the alternator output. Before studying 
this section, a review of transistor principles may be helpful.
A transistorized voltage regulator consists mainly of 
transistors, diodes, resistors, capacitors, and, usually, a 
thermistor. In operation, current flows through a diode 
and transistor path to the generator field. When the proper 
voltage level is reached, the regulating components 
cause the transistor to cut off conduction to control the 
alternator field strength. The regulator operating range is 
usually adjustable through a narrow range. The thermistor 
provides temperature compensation for the circuitry. The 
transistorized voltage regulator shown in Figure 12-342  
will be referred to in explaining the operation of this type 
of regulator.
The AC output of the generator is fed to the voltage regulator, 
where it is compared to a reference voltage, and the difference 
is applied to the control amplifier section of the regulator. If 
the output is too low, field strength of the AC exciter generator 
is increased by the circuitry in the regulator. If the output is 
too high, the field strength is reduced.
The power supply for the bridge circuit is CR1, which 
provides full-wave rectification of the three phase output 
from transformer T1. The DC output voltages of CR1 are 
proportional to the average phase voltages. Power is supplied 
from the negative end of the power supply through point B, 
R2, point C, zener diode (CR5), point D, and to the parallel 
hookup of V1 and R1. Takeoff point C of the bridge is located 
between resistor R2 and the zener diode. In the other leg of 
the reference bridge, resistors R9, R7, and the temperature 
compensating resistor RT1 are connected in series with V1 
and R1 through points B, A, and D. The output of this leg of 
the bridge is at the wiper arm of R7.
As generator voltage changes occur, for example, if the 
voltage lowers, the voltage across R1 and V1 (once V2 
starts conducting) remains constant. The total voltage change 
occurs across the bridge circuit. Since the voltage across the 
zener diode remains constant (once it starts conducting), the 
total voltage change occurring in that leg of the bridge is 
across resistor R2. In the other leg of the bridge, the voltage 
change across the resistors is proportional to their resistance 
values. Therefore, the voltage change across R2 is greater 
than the voltage change across R9 to wiper arm of R7. If 
the generator output voltage drops, point C is negative with 
respect to the wiper arm of R7. Conversely, if the generator 
voltage output increases, the polarity of the voltage between 
the two points is reversed.
The bridge output, taken between points C and A, is 
connected between the emitter and the base of transistor 
Q1. With the generator output voltage low, the voltage from 
the bridge is negative to the emitter and positive to the base. 
This is a forward bias signal to the transistor, and the emitter 
to collector current therefore increases. With the increase of 
current, the voltage across emitter resistor R11 increases.
This, in turn, applies a positive signal to the base of transistor

===== PDF-side 614 =====

12-173
Generator
To Load
F
E
G
H
J1
J2
K
K
M
N
O
P
Q
R
L
L
Latch
Oil out
Oil in
Constant 
speed drive
Figure 12-340. Droop circuit.
1 2 3 4
Figure 12-341. Relative direction of current in droop coil circuit 
with unequal loads.
Q4, increasing its emitter to collector current and increasing 
the voltage drop across the emitter resistor R10.
This gives a positive bias to the base of Q2, which increases 
its emitter to collector current and increase the voltage drop 
across its emitter resistor R4. This positive signal controls 
output transistor Q3. The positive signal on the base of Q3 
increases the emitter to collector current.
The control field of the exciter generator is in the collector 
circuit. Increasing the output of the exciter generator 
increases the field strength of the AC generator, which 
increases the generator output.
To prevent exciting the generator when the frequency is at a 
low value, there is an underspeed switch located near the F+ 
terminal. When the generator reaches a suitable operating 
frequency, the switch closes and allows the generator to 
be excited.
Another item of interest is the line containing resistors R27, 
R28, and R29 in series with the normally closed contacts 
of the K1 relay. The operating coil of this relay is found in 
the lower left part of the schematic. Relay K1 is connected 
across the power supply (CR4) for the transistor amplifier. 
When the generator is started, electrical energy is supplied 
from the 28-volt DC bus to the exciter generator field to 
“flash the field” for initial excitation. When the field of the 
exciter generator has been energized, the AC generator starts 
to produce, and as it builds up, relay K1 is energized, opening 
the “field flash” circuit.

===== PDF-side 615 =====

12-174
R11
K1
T1
T2T3
T1
Y-
R10 R4
R6
R29
R28
R27
K1
R9
R7
R1
RT1
A
A
F
F+
A–
A+
N
Switch
underspeed
+28V
Special bus
AC gen.
exciter
Gen. neg. bus
R
G
C
B
D
V1
CR5
R2
R3 R8
Q1 Q4 Q2 Q3
CR3
CR2
CR4
CR1
CR4
Figure 12-342. Transistorized voltage regulator.
