===== PDF-side 1 =====

DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A: Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.
NONRESIDENT
TRAINING
COURSE
SEPTEMBER 1998
Navy Electricity and
Electronics Training Series
Module 16—Introduction to Test
Equipment
NAVEDTRA 14188

===== PDF-side 2 =====

DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A: Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited.
Although the words “he,” “him,” and
“his” are used sparingly in this course to
enhance communication, they are not
intended to be gender driven or to affront or
discriminate against anyone.

===== PDF-side 3 =====

i
PREFACE
By enrolling in this self-study course, you have demonstrated a desire to improve yourself and the Navy.
Remember, however, this self-study course is only one part of the total Navy training program. Practical
experience, schools, selected reading, and your desire to succeed are also necessary to successfully round
out a fully meaningful training program.
COURSE OVERVIEW: To introduce the student to the subject of Test Equipment who needs such a
background in accomplishing daily work and/or in preparing for further study.
THE COURSE: This self-study course is organized into subject matter areas, each containing learning
objectives to help you determine what you should learn along with text and illustrations to help you
understand the information. The subject matter reflects day-to-day requirements and experiences of
personnel in the rating or skill area. It also reflects guidance provided by Enlisted Community Managers
(ECMs) and other senior personnel, technical references, instructions, etc., and either the occupational or
naval standards, which are listed in the Manual of Navy Enlisted Manpower Personnel Classifications
and Occupational Standards, NAVPERS 18068.
THE QUESTIONS : The questions that appear in this course are designed to help you understand the
material in the text.
VALUE: In completing this course, you will improve your military and professional knowledge.
Importantly, it can also help you study for the Navy-wide advancement in rate examination. If you are
studying and discover a reference in the text to another publication for further information, look it up.
1998 Edition Prepared by
O T M C SR i c h a r dH a l l
Published by
NAVAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
AND TECHNOLOGY CENTER
NAVSUP Logistics Tracking Number
0504-LP-026-8410

===== PDF-side 4 =====

ii
Sailor’s Creed
“I am a United States Sailor.
I will support and defend the
Constitution of the United States of
America and I will obey the orders
of those appointed over me.
I represent the fighting spirit of the
Navy and those who have gone
before me to defend freedom and
democracy around the world.
I proudly serve my country’s Navy
combat team with honor, courage
and commitment.
I am committed to excellence and
the fair treatment of all.”

===== PDF-side 5 =====

iii
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGE
1. Test Equipment Administration and Use.................................................................. 1-1
2. Miscellaneous Measurements................................................................................... 2-1
3. Basic Meters ............................................................................................................. 3-1
4. Common Test Equipment......................................................................................... 4-1
5. Special-Application Test Equipment........................................................................ 5-1
6. The Oscilloscope and Spectrum Analyzer................................................................ 6-1
APPENDIX
I. Glossary.................................................................................................................. AI- 1
II. References Used to Develop This TRAMAN ........................................................ AII-1
INDEX ......................................................................................................................... INDEX- 1

===== PDF-side 6 =====

iv
 
CREDITS 
 
 The figures listed below and included in this edition of NEETS, Module 16, Introduction 
to Test Equipment , were provided by Huntron Instruments, Inc.  Permission to use these 
illustrations is gratefully acknowledged.  Permission to reproduce these illustrations must be 
obtained from the source. 
 
   
SOURCE
 
 
FIGURE 
Huntron Instruments, Inc. 5-22, 5-23, 5-24, 5-25, 5-26, 5-27, 5-28 
A&B, 5-29, 5-30, 5-31, 5-32, 5-33,      
5-34, 5-35, 5-36, 5-37, 5-38

===== PDF-side 7 =====

v
NAVY ELECTRICITY AND ELECTRONICS TRAINING
SERIES
The Navy Electricity and Electronics Training Series (NEETS) was developed for use by personnel in
many electrical- and electronic-related Navy ratings. Written by, and with the advice of, senior
technicians in these ratings, this series provides beginners with fundamental electrical and electronic
concepts through self-study. The presentation of this series is not oriented to any specific rating structure,
but is divided into modules containing related information organized into traditional paths of instruction.
The series is designed to give small amounts of information that can be easily digested before advancing
further into the more complex material. For a student just becoming acquainted with electricity or
electronics, it is highly recommended that the modules be studied in their suggested sequence. While
there is a listing of NEETS by module title, the following brief descriptions give a quick overview of how
the individual modules flow together.
Module 1, Introduction to Matter, Energy, and Direct Current , introduces the course with a short history
of electricity and electronics and proceeds into the characteristics of matter, energy, and direct current
(dc). It also describes some of the general safety precautions and first-aid procedures that should be
common knowledge for a person working in the field of electricity. Related safety hints are located
throughout the rest of the series, as well.
Module 2, Introduction to Alternating Current and Transformers, is an introduction to alternating current
(ac) and transformers, including basic ac theory and fundamentals of electromagnetism, inductance,
capacitance, impedance, and transformers.
Module 3, Introduction to Circuit Protection, Control, and Measurement, encompasses circuit breakers,
fuses, and current limiters used in circuit protection, as well as the theory and use of meters as electrical
measuring devices.
Module 4, Introduction to Electrical Conductors, Wiring Techniques, and Schematic Reading, presents
conductor usage, insulation used as wire covering, splicing, termination of wiring, soldering, and reading
electrical wiring diagrams.
Module 5, Introduction to Generators and Motors, is an introduction to generators and motors, and
covers the uses of ac and dc generators and motors in the conversion of electrical and mechanical
energies.
Module 6, Introduction to Electronic Emission, Tubes, and Power Supplies, ties the first five modules
together in an introduction to vacuum tubes and vacuum-tube power supplies.
Module 7 , Introduction to Solid-State Devices and Power Supplies, is similar to module 6, but it is in
reference to solid-state devices.
Module 8, Introduction to Amplifiers, covers amplifiers.
Module 9, Introduction to Wave-Generation and Wave-Shaping Circuits, discusses wave generation and
wave-shaping circuits.
Module 10, Introduction to Wave Propagation, Transmission Lines, and Antennas, presents the
characteristics of wave propagation, transmission lines, and antennas.

===== PDF-side 8 =====

vi
Module 11, Microwave Principles, explains microwave oscillators, amplifiers, and waveguides.
Module 12, Modulation Principles, discusses the principles of modulation.
Module 13, Introduction to Number Systems and Logic Circuits, presents the fundamental concepts of
number systems, Boolean algebra, and logic circuits, all of which pertain to digital computers.
Module 14, Introduction to Microelectronics, covers microelectronics technology and miniature and
microminiature circuit repair.
Module 15, Principles of Synchros, Servos, and Gyros, provides the basic principles, operations,
functions, and applications of synchro, servo, and gyro mechanisms.
Module 16, Introduction to Test Equipment, is an introduction to some of the more commonly used test
equipments and their applications.
Module 17, Radio-Frequency Communications Principles, presents the fundamentals of a radio-
frequency communications system.
Module 18, Radar Principles, covers the fundamentals of a radar system.
Module 19, The Technician's Handbook, is a handy reference of commonly used general information,
such as electrical and electronic formulas, color coding, and naval supply system data.
Module 20, Master Glossary, is the glossary of terms for the series.
Module 21, Test Methods and Practices, describes basic test methods and practices.
Module 22, Introduction to Digital Computers, is an introduction to digital computers.
Module 23, Magnetic Recording, is an introduction to the use and maintenance of magnetic recorders and
the concepts of recording on magnetic tape and disks.
Module 24, Introduction to Fiber Optics, is an introduction to fiber optics.
Embedded questions are inserted throughout each module, except for modules 19 and 20, which are
reference books. If you have any difficulty in answering any of the questions, restudy the applicable
section.
Although an attempt has been made to use simple language, various technical words and phrases have
necessarily been included. Specific terms are defined in Module 20, Master Glossary.
Considerable emphasis has been placed on illustrations to provide a maximum amount of information. In
some instances, a knowledge of basic algebra may be required.
Assignments are provided for each module, with the exceptions of Module 19, The Technician's
Handbook; and Module 20, Master Glossary . Course descriptions and ordering information are in
NAVEDTRA 12061, Catalog of Nonresident Training Courses .

===== PDF-side 9 =====

vii
Throughout the text of this course and while using technical manuals associated with the equipment you
will be working on, you will find the below notations at the end of some paragraphs. The notations are
used to emphasize that safety hazards exist and care must be taken or observed.
WARNING
AN OPERATING PROCEDURE, PRACTICE, OR CONDITION, ETC., WHICH MAY
RESULT IN INJURY OR DEATH IF NOT CAREFULLY OBSERVED OR
FOLLOWED.
CAUTION
AN OPERATING PROCEDURE, PRACTICE, OR CONDITION, ETC., WHICH MAY
RESULT IN DAMAGE TO EQUIPMENT IF NOT CAREFULLY OBSERVED OR
FOLLOWED.
NOTE
An operating procedure, practice, or condition, etc., which is essential to emphasize.

===== PDF-side 10 =====

viii
INSTRUCTIONS FOR TAKING THE COURSE
ASSIGNMENTS
The text pages that you are to study are listed at
the beginning of each assignment. Study these
pages carefully before attempting to answer the
questions. Pay close attention to tables and
illustrations and read the learning objectives.
The learning objectives state what you should be
able to do after studying the material. Answering
the questions correctly helps you accomplish the
objectives.
SELECTING YOUR ANSWERS
Read each question carefully, then select the
BEST answer. You may refer freely to the text.
The answers must be the result of your own
work and decisions. You are prohibited from
referring to or copying the answers of others and
from giving answers to anyone else taking the
course.
SUBMITTING YOUR ASSIGNMENTS
To have your assignments graded, you must be
enrolled in the course with the Nonresident
Training Course Administration Branch at the
Naval Education and Training Professional
Development and Technology Center
(NETPDTC). Following enrollment, there are
two ways of having your assignments graded:
(1) use the Internet to submit your assignments
as you complete them, or (2) send all the
assignments at one time by mail to NETPDTC.
Grading on the Internet: Advantages to
Internet grading are:
• you may submit your answers as soon as
you complete an assignment, and
• you get your results faster; usually by the
next working day (approximately 24 hours).
In addition to receiving grade results for each
assignment, you will receive course completion
confirmation once you have completed all the
assignments. To submit your assignment
answers via the Internet, go to:
http://courses.cnet.navy.mil
Grading by Mail: When you submit answer
sheets by mail, send all of your assignments at
one time. Do NOT submit individual answer
sheets for grading. Mail all of your assignments
in an envelope, which you either provide
yourself or obtain from your nearest Educational
Services Officer (ESO). Submit answer sheets
to:
COMMANDING OFFICER
NETPDTC N331
6490 SAUFLEY FIELD ROAD
PENSACOLA FL 32559-5000
Answer Sheets: All courses include one
“scannable” answer sheet for each assignment.
These answer sheets are preprinted with your
SSN, name, assignment number, and course
number. Explanations for completing the answer
sheets are on the answer sheet.
Do not use answer sheet reproductions: Use
only the original answer sheets that we
provide—reproductions will not work with our
scanning equipment and cannot be processed.
Follow the instructions for marking your
answers on the answer sheet. Be sure that blocks
1, 2, and 3 are filled in correctly. This
information is necessary for your course to be
properly processed and for you to receive credit
for your work.
COMPLETION TIME
Courses must be completed within 12 months
from the date of enrollment. This includes time
required to resubmit failed assignments.

===== PDF-side 11 =====

ix
PASS/FAIL ASSIGNMENT PROCEDURES
If your overall course score is 3.2 or higher, you
will pass the course and will not be required to
resubmit assignments. Once your assignments
have been graded you will receive course
completion confirmation.
If you receive less than a 3.2 on any assignment
and your overall course score is below 3.2, you
will be given the opportunity to resubmit failed
assignments. You may resubmit failed
assignments only once. Internet students will
receive notification when they have failed an
assignment--they may then resubmit failed
assignments on the web site. Internet students
may view and print results for failed
assignments from the web site. Students who
submit by mail will receive a failing result letter
and a new answer sheet for resubmission of each
failed assignment.
COMPLETION CONFIRMATION
After successfully completing this course, you
will receive a letter of completion.
ERRATA
Errata are used to correct minor errors or delete
obsolete information in a course. Errata may
also be used to provide instructions to the
student. If a course has an errata, it will be
included as the first page(s) after the front cover.
Errata for all courses can be accessed and
viewed/downloaded at:
http://www.advancement.cnet.navy.mil
STUDENT FEEDBACK QUESTIONS
We value your suggestions, questions, and
criticisms on our courses. If you would like to
communicate with us regarding this course, we
encourage you, if possible, to use e-mail. If you
write or fax, please use a copy of the Student
Comment form that follows this page.
For subject matter questions:
E-mail: n315.products@cnet.navy.mil
Phone: Comm: (850) 452-1001, ext. 1728
DSN: 922-1001, ext. 1728
FAX: (850) 452-1370
(Do not fax answer sheets.)
Address: COMMANDING OFFICER
NETPDTC N315
6490 SAUFLEY FIELD ROAD
PENSACOLA FL 32509-5237
For enrollment, shipping, grading, or
completion letter questions
E-mail: fleetservices@cnet.navy.mil
Phone: Toll Free: 877-264-8583
Comm: (850) 452-1511/1181/1859
DSN: 922-1511/1181/1859
FAX: (850) 452-1370
(Do not fax answer sheets.)
Address: COMMANDING OFFICER
NETPDTC N331
6490 SAUFLEY FIELD ROAD
PENSACOLA FL 32559-5000
NAVAL RESERVE RETIREMENT CREDIT
If you are a member of the Naval Reserve, you
will receive retirement points if you are
authorized to receive them under current
directives governing retirement of Naval
Reserve personnel. For Naval Reserve
retirement, this course is evaluated at 5 points.
(Refer to Administrative Procedures for Naval
Reservists on Inactive Duty, BUPERSINST
1001.39, for more information about retirement
points.)

===== PDF-side 12 =====

x 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY.

===== PDF-side 13 =====

xi
Student Comments
Course Title:
NEETS Module 16
Introduction to Test Equipment
NAVEDTRA: 14188 Date:
We need some information about you :
Rate/Rank and Name: SSN: Command/Unit
Street Address: City: State/FPO: Zip
Your comments, suggestions, etc .:
Privacy Act Statement: Under authority of Title 5, USC 301, information regarding your military status is
requested in processing your comments and in preparing a reply. This information will not be divulged without
written authorization to anyone other than those within DOD for official use in determining performance.
NETPDTC 1550/41 (Rev 4-00)

===== PDF-side 14 =====



===== PDF-side 15 =====

1-1
CHAPTER 1
TEST EQUIPMENT ADMINISTRATION AND USE
LEARNING OBJECTIVES
Learning objectives are stated at the beginning of each chapter. These learning objectives serve as a
preview of the information you are expected to learn in the chapter. The comprehensive check questions
included are based on the objectives. By successfully completing the NRTC, you indicate that you have
met the objectives and have learned the information.
Upon completing this chapter, you should be able to:
 1. Describe the Ship Configuration and Logistic Support Information System (SCLSIS).
 2. State the differences between calibration and repair.
 3. Explain the various calibration status labels used by the Navy.
 4. List the procedures for obtaining repairs to test equipment.
 5. Describe the Metrology Automated System for Uniform Recall and Reporting (MEASURE)
System and the purpose of the Metrology Equipment Recall and Reporting (METER) card and
recall schedule.
 6. Describe major test equipment references available to you.
 7. Explain the purposes and benefits of testing.
 8. State the safety precautions involved in working with test equipment.
 9. List three precautions you should observe to avoid damaging electric measuring instruments.
 10. State the correct procedures for using a safety shorting probe.
 11. Describe resistance, voltage, and current measurements in terms of purposes, methods, and
instruments used.
 12. Describe how capacitance and inductance are measured.
 13. Explain the operation of bridges in the measurement of unknown resistances, capacitances, and
inductances.
INTRODUCTION
One purpose of this chapter is to acquaint you with the practical use of test equipment. The presence
of adequate test equipment in your shop is not in itself a "cure-all" for making repairs to complex
electronic equipment. You must know how to best use the equipment available. First, however, you must
understand the basis of electronic theory and be able to apply it to the system under repair.

===== PDF-side 16 =====

1-2
Another purpose of this chapter is to introduce you to calibration and repair procedures, and basic
voltage and current measurements. You will also learn how ac bridges are used for precise measurements
of resistance, capacitance, and inductance.
Much of the theory of operation and practical applications of the basic types of test instruments used
in electrical and electronic circuits are found in the instruction books and technical manuals that
accompany various equipments. You should read and understand these books before you attempt to use
any test instrument. You should also know the established safety precautions to ensure your safety and
safe equipment operating procedures to protect equipment from damage.
TEST EQUIPMENT IDENTIFICATION
One of the first things you must learn as a maintenance technician is how to identify the various
electronic equipment and components by their appropriate nomenclatures. You will find that several
methods are used to identify test equipment used; this may be somewhat confusing to you at first. For
example, a Tektronix Model 541A oscilloscope can also be identified as a CBTV-541A. The Joint
Electronics Type Designation System (JETDS) is used by all branches of the military to identify
equipment by a system of standardized nomenclatures.
 Q-1. What system is currently used by all branches of the military to identify test equipment?
ELECTRONIC TEST EQUIPMENT CLASSIFICATION
The Electronic Test Equipment Classification Board was established in 1973 to control the increased
use of undesirable electronic test equipment (ETE) in fleet and shore activities. The board classifies
electronic test equipments as GENERAL PURPOSE (GPETE) or SPECIAL PURPOSE (SPETE) and
assigns responsibility for their management. Items classified as general purpose are managed by the
Space and Warfare Systems Command (SPAWARSYSCOM). Items classified as special purpose are
managed by the individual systems command that generates the requirement.
GPETE is test equipment that has the capability, without modification, to generate, modify, or
measure a range of parameters of electronic functions required to test two or more equipments or systems
of basically different design.
Special-purpose electronic test equipment (SPETE) is specifically designed to generate, modify, or
measure a range of parameters of electronic functions of a specific or peculiar nature required to test a
single system or equipment. These special test equipments are procured by the systems command that has
the responsibility for the system/equipment requiring the SPETE for maintenance.
 Q-2. Name the two classes of test equipment.
 Q-3. What test equipment is designed to generate, modify, or measure a range of parameters of
electronic functions of a specific nature required to test a single system or equipment?
Until the ETE classification board was established, the uncontrolled increase in use of nonstandard
GPETE had resulted in loss of inventory control and increased support costs. NESEA has the
responsibility for evaluating requests to purchase nonstandard GPETE and for recommending its approval
or disapproval to NAVSEA. NAVSEA will then forward its final decision to the originating command for
such requests.

===== PDF-side 17 =====

1-3
SHIP CONFIGURATION AND LOGISTIC INFORMATION SYSTEM (SCLSIS) PROGRAM
The Navy must maintain, update, and calibrate thousands of pieces of equipment. To do this, the
SHIP CONFIGURATION AND LOGISTIC SUPPORT INFORMATION SYSTEM (SCLSIS) program
was designed to keep track of all installed and portable equipment in the fleet. SCLSIS is used to keep up
with the existence, location, and changes made to equipment. The SCLSIS program seeks to improve the
quality of equipment reporting, provide information needed by other Navy management systems, and
reduce record keeping. It is also designed to assist Navy supply systems that furnish spares,
documentation, and training necessary to support installed and portable equipment.
Therefore, the inventory of assigned test equipment on board ship is directly related to SCLSIS
records. Properly maintained SCLSIS records also show the complete inventory of test equipment on
board by quantity, serial number, and location. The SCLSIS program has two basic elements: (1)
VALIDATION, to establish a baseline data inventory, and (2) INVENTORY UPDATING, to correct
errors or omissions and to document configuration changes.
 Q-4. Name the two basic elements of the SCLSIS program.
CALIBRATION AND REPAIR PROCEDURES
The difference between the terms calibration and repair needs to be addressed before we proceed
further. Calibration is little more than checking, adjusting, or systematically aligning a test instrument to a
known standard. To do this, you must ensure that the equipment you send to the calibration lab is in
working order.
The calibration lab is where actual repair work becomes important. Obvious problems, such as open
power cords, burned components, broken meters, and missing hardware, should be repaired or replaced
before sending equipment to the calibration lab. Most calibration labs with which you will deal will be
part of an intermediate maintenance activity (IMA) on board a tender.
CALIBRATION STATUS
You can determine the calibration status of any test equipment by checking the calibration label or
tag located on the equipment. These calibration labels or tags advise you as to whether the item is usable
and within its calibration interval. Tags and labels to be used in the METROLOGY CALIBRATION
(METCAL) coordination program are listed in the following paragraphs. No other calibration labels or
tags are authorized to be placed on test equipment.
Calibrated Label
The CALIBRATED label, shown in view A of figure 1-1, has black lettering and a white
background and comes in two sizes. It is the most commonly used label in the METCAL program. This
label indicates that the instrument to which it is attached is within its applicable tolerance on all
parameters. If there are any qualifying conditions for use of the instrument, one of the other labels
described in the next paragraphs should be used.

===== PDF-side 18 =====

1-4
Figure 1-1.—Calibration labels and tags.
Calibrated—Refer to Report Label
The CALIBRATED—REFER TO REPORT label, shown in view B of figure 1-1, has red lettering
and a white back ground. It comes in two sizes and is used when you must know the actual measurement
values to use the instrument.

===== PDF-side 19 =====

1-5
 Q-5. What calibration label is used when actual measurement values must be known to use the test
equipment?
Special Calibration Labels
Two SPECIAL CALIBRATION labels are shown in view C of figure 1-1 that have black lettering
and a yellow background; the size and content of the labels are different. A SPECIAL CALIBRATION
tag (figure 1-1, view C) is used with the smaller of the two labels. These labels or tag are used when some
unusual or special condition in the calibration should be drawn to your attention.
Such special conditions may be deviations from usual calibration tolerances, multiple calibration
intervals, or a requirement for in-place calibration. The special condition that resulted in the SPECIAL
CALIBRATION label should be described on the large label when sufficient space is available on the
instrument or on the tag when the small label is used. Brief descriptions of special conditions are provided
in the following paragraphs.
 Q-6. An instrument that must be calibrated in place requires what type of calibration label?
In cases where you do not require full instrument capability, the calibration can be performed with
reduced tolerances or cover less than all ranges and parameters. This approach is often used when the
instrument does not meet full calibration tolerances on certain ranges or parameters, but can still meet
user requirements. On the other hand, the special calibration may be for higher accuracy than usual on a
short-term basis upon your specific request.
MULTIPLE CALIBRATION INTERVALS.—Some instruments have components that require
calibration less frequently than the rest of the instrument. For example, the attenuator in a signal generator
may require calibration every 12 months, whereas the rest of the instrument parameters should be
calibrated every 4 months. Since the attenuator calibration is time consuming and may require unavailable
standards, use of the multiple-interval approach can save considerable time (man-hours) as well as permit
the more frequent calibration to be performed at a lower level laboratory.
When a specific instrument has been designed for multiple calibration intervals, such information is
provided in the applicable calibration procedure. The SPECIAL CALIBRATION label or tag is annotated
with the words MULTIPLE INTERVAL, and the type of calibration performed is indicated; for example,
partial 1 of 2, 2 of 2, complete calibration, and so forth. The calibration due date reflects the due date of
the next partial or complete calibration.
CALIBRATION IN-PLACE.—Some instruments should be calibrated in-place. Annotation on the
SPECIAL CALIBRATION label or tag will alert both you and the calibrator that the instrument should
not be removed, but should be calibrated in-place.
User Calibration Label
Some test and measuring equipment (T&ME) should be calibrated by you instead of your referring
the instrument to a calibration facility. For example, some instruments, such as hardness testers and
densitometers, are provided with their own standards and should be calibrated each time used, or at least
very frequently. Some instruments, such as oscillographic recorders, may require calibration before,
during, and after each use.
Other automatic test equipment (ATE) have self-calibration tests that should be performed each time
used or each day of use. Still other instruments are calibrated as part of checkout procedures performed
daily or weekly and recorded in maintenance logs. Whenever recognized, the requirement for calibration

===== PDF-side 20 =====

1-6
by the user and the calibration interval (each use—daily, weekly, every 100 hours—each overhaul, and so
forth) is indicated in the Metrology Requirements List (METRL).
The USER CALIBRATION label, shown in view D of figure 1-1, has black lettering and a white
background and is affixed when the calibration is performed by the user; however, this label is not
replaced at each calibration. When the label is first attached to the instrument, it is annotated as to the
appropriate calibration interval. Records of calibrations performed, when other than each time used,
should be by normal maintenance practices; that is, in the maintenance log, on maintenance action forms,
and so forth.
Inactive—Calibrate Before Use Label
In the event that an individual instrument due for recalibration will not be used for some time in the
future, you may indefinitely postpone the recalibration by affixing an inactive label to the instrument. As
shown in view E of figure 1-1, the INACTIVE—CALIBRATE BEFORE USE label has green lettering
and a white background. The INACTIVE label remains on the instrument until it is recalibrated. The
instrument is not to be used while bearing this label.
Calibration Not Required Label
Test equipment standards and T&ME not requiring calibration are shown as CALIBRATION NOT
REQUIRED. This label, shown in view F of figure 1-1, has orange letters and a white background. It is
attached to and should remain on the instrument indefinitely unless its calibration requirements change. If
the instrument is not listed in METRL, you should use the following criteria when placing instruments in
the CALIBRATION NOT REQUIRED category:
• Instrument does not make quantitative measurements nor provide quantified outputs.
• The device is "fail-safe"; that is, operation beyond specified tolerances will be apparent to the
user.
• All measurement/stimulus circuits are monitored during use by calibrated instruments or are
dependent on external known or calibrated sources for performance within required limits. (When
determining that an instrument falls into the CALIBRATION NOT REQUIRED category, you
should annotate the label as to the authority for the decision, such as METRL, technical manual,
letter or message from higher authority.)
Rejected—refer To Attached Tag Label
In the event that an instrument fails to meet the acceptance criteria during calibration and cannot be
adequately repaired, a REJECTED—REFER TO ATTACHED TAG label is placed on the instrument and
all other servicing labels removed. This label, as shown in view G of figure 1-1, has black letters and a
red background. In addition to the REJECTED label, a REJECTED tag, giving the reason for rejection
and other information as required, is attached to the instrument. Both the label and tag remain on the
instrument until it is repaired and recalibrated. The instrument is not to be used while bearing a
REJECTED label.
Calibration Void If Seal Broken Label
The CALIBRATION VOID IF SEAL BROKEN label, shown in view H of figure 1-1, has black
letters and a white background. It is placed over readily accessible (usually exterior) adjustments to
prevent tampering by the user when such tampering could affect the calibration. The label should not be

===== PDF-side 21 =====

1-7
used to cover adjustments or controls that are part of the normal use and operation of the instrument. This
label may also be used to prevent removal and/or interchange of plug-ins, modules, subassemblies, and so
forth, when such removal or interchange would affect the calibration.
REPAIR PROCEDURES
If you are unable to replace a known failed component with onboard spares, you can often locate the
replacement component from other supply sources. The replacement component can then be delivered,
along with the inoperative equipment, to the IMA. So by sending the repair part along with the
equipment, you can reduce repair time considerably. This is particularly true when your unit is getting
under way and no time is available for you to complete the repair before calibration. Most operational
commands have a higher supply priority for purchase of repair parts than the IMA can use.
"No Reject" Policy
IMAs have a "no reject" policy on test equipment to provide operational test equipment in a more
timely manner. The "no reject" policy says, in effect, that test equipment submitted to the IMA for
calibration, which is later found to require repair, will be repaired by the repair department of the IMA.
Before this policy, any equipment found inoperative by the calibration lab was marked REJECTED, the
reasons stated, and the equipment returned uncalibrated to the ship for repairs. The "no reject" policy does
not relieve you of your responsibility to ensure your equipment is in working order prior to submitting it
for calibration. Its purpose is to streamline the procedure and cut down delays in returning your
equipment to you calibrated and ready to use.
Responsibility for Repair and Maintenance of Test Equipment
Generally, the responsibility for repair and maintenance of test equipment is placed on maintenance
personnel. In some cases, however, maintenance personnel are not authorized to make repairs. Then the
test instrument must be sent to a shore repair/calibration facility.
 Q-7. Responsibility for repair and maintenance of test equipment generally rests with what group of
personnel?
When test equipment is sent for calibration and repair, all accessories, such as probes, adapters, and
calibration sheets, should be included. Only in emergencies or special situations should partial repair or
calibration be attempted on test equipment designated as nonrepairable. Such emergency repairs should
be noted on a tag attached to the unit and an entry made on the MEASURE card (discussed shortly). The
equipment should then be sent at the earliest opportunity to an authorized facility so that permanent
repairs can be made and the unit calibrated.
STOWAGE AND HANDLING OF TEST EQUIPMENT
Most electronic test equipment is precision equipment. Such equipment must be handled with care to
properly perform its designed functions. Rough handling, excessive heat, moisture, and dust all affect the
useful life of the equipment. Bumping or dropping a test instrument may ruin the calibration of a meter,
cause short circuits, or damage electronic elements inside the case. Sharp bends, creases, or dents in
coaxial test cables can alter the expected attenuating effect and cause false meter readings or
measurements. Forced air cooling, dust filters, and heaters are used in many pieces of equipment. This
test equipment requires clean air filters for proper ventilation and a warm-up period that permits units in
the equipment to maintain calibrated standards.
Electronic test equipment should be stowed in a dry location with the dust cover (if provided) in
place. Dust covers for spare plug-in units should be constructed for such stowage. For ease in performing

===== PDF-side 22 =====

1-8
maintenance, the test equipment should be stowed at a location convenient to equipment spaces. If
possible, related test equipment should be mounted in the equipment spaces. This reduces the problem of
finding adequate stowage space elsewhere.
In stowage spaces, individual pieces of test equipment should be held in place by stretch seat-belt-
type straps. If bars are used to hold equipment on shelves, meters and control knobs should be protected
by blocking the equipment to prevent it from rolling and sliding on the shelf. Test equipment too large for
shelf stowage should be kept in stowage cases and tie-downs provided to secure the cases. Refer to
Stowage Guide for Portable Test Equipment, NAVSEA ST000-AB-GYD-010/GPETE, to determine
adequate stowage space and proper weight support requirements.
THE METROLOGY AUTOMATED SYSTEM FOR UNIFORM RECALL AND REPORTING
(MEASURE)
For the sake of simplicity, we will use the more commonly used acronym MEASURE instead of the
full name to describe this system in the next discussion.
MEASURE is a data processing system designed to provide a standardized system for the recall and
scheduling of test, measurement, and diagnostic equipment (TMDE) into calibration facilities. It also
provides for the documentation of data pertaining to the calibration actions performed by these facilities.
The primary reference document that describes the operation of the MEASURE system is Metrology
Automated System for Uniform Recall and Reporting (MEASURE) Users Manual, OP 43P6A. The Chief
of Naval Operations oversees this program and establishes policy and guidelines.
 Q-8. What Navy office oversees the MEASURE program?
Each naval activity must ensure that the test equipment for which it has been assigned primary
responsibility is submitted on a timely basis to a calibration activity for required calibration.
The MEASURE program is designed to assist these naval activities in the fulfillment of this
responsibility. MEASURE does this by providing for the automatic scheduling and recall of all such test
equipment for calibration.
Each activity submits an initial inventory, using the form shown in figure 1-2, to its Metrology
Calibration Representative (METCALREP) for approval. The METCALREP then forwards the inventory
to the Measure Operational Control Center (MOCC). The MOCC, based on the information contained on
these inventory report forms, provides the necessary preprinted Metrology Equipment Recall and
Reporting (METER) card. Figure 1-3 illustrates a MEASURE METER card.

===== PDF-side 23 =====

1-9
Figure 1-2.—MEASURE TMDF Inventory report form.

===== PDF-side 24 =====

1-10
Figure 1-3.—MEASURE METER card.
In part, the METER card is preprinted with information taken from the initial inventory data
submitted on the inventory report forms together with such updated data as may appear on any prior
METER card. The remaining information required is entered on the card by the user of the equipment or
the calibration activity, as appropriate.

===== PDF-side 25 =====

1-11
The METER card is used to report changes, additions, or deletions to the user activity’ s inventory. It
is also used to report changes in custody of the item of test equipment. The procedure for filling out the
METER card is outlined in the appendixes of the MEASURE Users Manual. Blank METER cards can be
obtained through the responsible METCALREP.
A computer printout recall schedule is also generated by the MEASURE system. The purpose of this
printout is to list those items of equipment that are due for calibration. Each recall schedule is composed
of a set of four identical copies. One set is provided to the calibration activity as an aid to workload
planning; a second set is sent to the user’ s activity. The recall schedule is one of several products/formats
sent automatically by the MEASURE Operation Control Center to the user activity on a regular basis. The
MOCC automatically distributes the following products to user activities at the intervals shown:
DOCUMENT TITLE TYPE DOCUMENT INTERVAL
Format 215 Unmatched listing As required
Format 310 Test equipment inventory Monthly
Format 350 Test equipment inventory in sub-custodian order Monthly
Format 804 Recall schedule for on-site equipment Monthly/Quarterly
Replenishment cards Preprinted METER card As required
Blank METER cards Initial issue
TEST EQUIPMENT REFERENCES
Several publications that contain information concerning test equipment are required to be
maintained aboard ship by type commander instructions. These requirements are usually found in the
inspection checkoff list. Other publications, while not required by directive, are necessary to you as
reference and study material so you will be able to administer an effective test equipment program.
Technicians should become familiar with the publications/directives listed in appendix II of this module.
INTRODUCTION TO TROUBLESHOOTING
Our military forces increasingly rely on electrical and electronic equipment to help perform their
mission. The effectiveness of our tactical forces depends on many types of electronic systems, such as
communications systems, detection systems, and fire control systems. The reliability of such equipment is
determined by many factors; however, the primary factors are the quality of the equipment in use, the
availability of spare parts, and the ability of maintenance personnel to perform adequate maintenance.
Maintenance is work done to correct, reduce, or counteract wear, failure, and damage to equipment.
Maintenance of electrical and electronic equipment is divided into two main categories: PREVENTIVE
(routine) and CORRECTIVE maintenance. Preventive maintenance consists of mechanical, electrical, and
electronic checks to determine whether equipment is operating properly. It also consists of visual
inspections of cabling and equipment for damage and to determine if lubrication is needed. Corrective
maintenance isolates equipment failure by means of test techniques and practices; it also replaces
defective parts and realigns or readjusts equipment to bring it back to proper performance.
 Q-9. What are the two main categories of maintenance?
 Q-10. What type of maintenance involves isolating equipment troubles and replacing defective parts?

===== PDF-side 26 =====

1-12
Testing and troubleshooting are the areas of maintenance that require the greatest technical skill.
Testing procedures are referred to as measurements, tests, and checks. The definitions of these terms
often overlap, depending on their use and the results obtained. For example, a power measurement and a
frequency check could constitute a test of the operation of the same radio transmitter.
Troubleshooting is a term which we in the electronics field use daily. But what does it mean?
Troubleshooting is sometimes thought to be the simple repair of a piece of equipment when it fails to
function properly. This, however, is only part of the picture. In addition to repair, you, as a troubleshooter,
must be able to evaluate equipment performance. You evaluate performance by comparing your
knowledge of how the equipment should operate with the way
 it is actually performing. You must
evaluate equipment both before and after repairs are accomplished.
Equipment performance data, along with other general information for various electronic
equipments, is available to help you in making comparisons. This information is provided in performance
standards books for each piece of equipment. It illustrates what a particular waveform should look like at
a given test point or what amplitude a voltage should be, and so forth. This data aids you in making
intelligent comparisons of current and baseline operating characteristics for the specific equipment
assigned to you for maintenance. ("Baseline" refers to the initial operating conditions of the equipment on
installation or after overhaul when it is operating according to design.)
Remember, maintenance refers to all actions you perform on equipment to retain it in a serviceable
condition or to restore it to proper operation. This involves inspecting, testing, servicing, repairing,
rebuilding, and so forth. Proper maintenance can be performed only by trained personnel who are
thoroughly familiar with the equipment. This familiarity requires a thorough knowledge of the theory of
operation of the equipment.
A logical and systematic approach to troubleshooting is of the utmost importance in your
performance of electronics maintenance. Many hours have been lost because of time-consuming "hit-or-
miss" (often referred to as "easter-egging") methods of troubleshooting.
GENERAL TEST EQUIPMENT INFORMATION
In any maintenance training program, one of your most important tasks is to learn the use of test
equipment in all types of maintenance work. To be effective in maintenance work, you must become
familiar not only with the common types of measuring instruments, but also with the more specialized
equipment. Some examples of common types of typical measuring instruments are the ammeter,
voltmeter, and ohmmeter; examples of specialized test equipment are the spectrum analyzer, dual-trace
oscilloscope, and power and frequency meters.
TEST EQUIPMENT SAFETY PRECAUTIONS
The electrical measuring instruments included in test equipment are delicately constructed and
require certain handling precautions to prevent damage and to ensure accurate readings. In addition, to
prevent injury to personnel, you must observe precautions while using test equipment. You can find a list
of applicable instructions in appendix II of this module.
Instrument Precautions
To prevent damage to electrical measuring instruments, you should observe the precautions relating
to three hazards: mechanical shock, exposure to magnetic fields, and excessive current flow.

===== PDF-side 27 =====

1-13
MECHANICAL SHOCK.—Instruments contain permanent magnets, meters, and other
components that are sensitive to shock. Heavy vibrations or severe shock can cause these instruments to
lose their calibration accuracy.
EXPOSURE TO STRONG MAGNETIC FIELDS.—Strong magnetic fields may permanently
impair the accuracy of a test instrument. These fields may impress permanent magnetic effects on
permanent magnets, moving-coil instruments, iron parts of moving-iron instruments, or in the magnetic
materials used to shield instruments.
EXCESSIVE CURRENT FLOW.—This includes various precautions, depending on the type of
instrument. When in doubt, use the maximum range scale on the first measurement and shift to lower
range scales only after you verify that the reading can be made on a lower range. If possible, connections
should be made while the circuit is de-energized. All connections should be checked to ensure that the
instrument will not be overloaded before the circuit is reenergized.
Other Instrument Precautions
Precautions to be observed to prevent instrument damage include the following:
• Keep in mind that the coils of wattmeters, frequency meters, and power meters may be carrying
large quantities of current even when the meter pointer is on scale.
• Never open secondaries of current transformers when the primary is energized.
• Never short-circuit secondaries of potential transformers the primary is energized.
• Never leave an instrument connected with its pointer off-scale or deflected in the wrong direction.
• Ensure that meters in motor circuits can handle the motor starting current. This may be as high as
six to eight times the normal running current.
• Never attempt to measure the internal resistance of a meter movement with an ohmmeter since
the movement may be damaged by the current output from the ohmmeter.
• Never advance the intensity control of an oscilloscope to a position that causes an excessively
bright spot on the screen; never permit a sharply focused spot to remain stationary for any period
of time. This results in burn spots on the face of the cathode-ray tube (CRT).
• In checking electron tubes with a tube tester that has a separate "short test," always make the
short test first. If the tube is shorted, no further test should be made.
• Before measuring resistance, always discharge any capacitors in the circuit to be tested. Note and
record any points not having bleeder resistors or discharge paths for capacitors.
• Always disconnect voltmeters from field generating or other highly inductive circuits before you
open the circuit.
 Q-11. Which quantity (voltage or current) determines the intensity of an electrical shock?
Situations can arise during the use of test equipment that are extremely dangerous to personnel. For
example, you may have an oscilloscope plugged into one receptacle, an electronic meter plugged into

===== PDF-side 28 =====

1-14
another, and a soldering iron in still another. Also, you may be using an extension cord for some
equipments and not others or may be using other possible combinations. Some of the hazards presented
by situations such as these include contact with live terminals or test leads. In addition, cords and test
leads may be cross connected in such a manner that a potential difference exists between the metal cases
of the instruments. This potential difference may cause serious or fatal shocks.
Test leads attached to test equipment should, if possible, extend from the back of the instruments
away from the observer. If this is not possible, they should be clamped to the bench or table near the
instruments.
At times, you may use instruments at locations where vibration is present, such as near a diesel
engine. At such times, the instruments should be placed on pads of folded cloth, felt, or similar shock-
absorbing material.
WORKING ON ENERGIZED CIRCUITS
Insofar as is practical, you should NOT undertake repair work on energized circuits and equipment.
However, it could become necessary, such as when you make adjustments on operating equipment. In
such cases, obtain permission from your supervisor, then proceed with your work, but carefully observe
the following safety precautions:
• DO NOT WORK ALONE.
• Station an assistant near the main switch or circuit breaker so the equipment can be immediately
de-energized in case of an emergency.
• Someone qualified in first aid for electrical shock should be standing by during the entire
operation.
• Ensure that you have adequate lighting. You must be able to see clearly if you are to perform the
job safely and properly.
• Be sure that you are insulated from ground by an approved rubber mat or layers of dry canvas
and/or wood.
• Where practical, use only one hand, keeping the other either behind you or in your pocket.
• If you expect voltage to exceed 150 volts, wear rubber gloves.
• DO NOT work on any type of electrical apparatus when you are wearing wet clothing or if your
hands are wet.
• DO NOT wear loose or flapping clothing.
• The use of thin-soled shoes and shoes with metal plates or hobnails is prohibited.
• Flammable articles, such as celluloid cap visors, should not be worn.

===== PDF-side 29 =====

1-15
• Remove all rings, wristwatches, bracelets, and similar metal items before working on the
equipment. Also ensure that your clothing does not contain exposed metal fasteners, such as
zippers, snaps, buttons, and pins.
• Do not tamper with interlock switches; that is, do not defeat their purpose by shorting them or
blocking them open.
• Ensure that equipment is properly grounded before energizing.
• De-energize equipment before attaching alligator clips to any circuit.
• Use only approved meters and other indicating devices to check for the presence of voltage.
• Observe the following procedures when measuring voltages in excess of 300 volts:
/G16 Turn off the equipment power.
/G16 Short-circuit or ground the terminals of all components capable of retaining a charge.
/G16 Connect the meter leads to the points to be measured.
/G16 Remove any terminal grounds previously connected.
/G16 Turn on the power and observe the voltage reading.
/G16 Turn off the power.
/G16 Short circuit or ground all components capable of retaining a charge.
/G16 Disconnect the meter leads.
• On all circuits where the voltage is in excess of 30 volts and where decks, bulkheads, or
workbenches are made of metal, you should insulate yourself from accidental grounding by using
approved insulating material. The insulating material should have the following qualities:
/G16 It should be dry, without holes, and should not contain conducting materials.
/G16 The voltage rating for which it is made should be clearly marked on the material. The proper
material should be used so that adequate protection from the voltage can be supplied.
/G16 Dry wood may be used or, as an alternative, several layers of dry canvas, sheets of phenolic
(resin or plastic) insulating material, or suitable rubber mats.
/G16 Care should be exercised to ensure that moisture, dust, metal chips, and so forth, which may
collect on insulating material, are removed at once. Small deposits of such materials can
become electrical hazards.
/G16 All insulating materials on machinery and in the area should be kept free of oil, grease, carbon
dust, and so forth, since such deposits destroy insulation.

===== PDF-side 30 =====

1-16
SAFETY SHORTING PROBE
A representative shorting probe is shown in figure 1-4. An approved shorting probe is shown in
NAVSEA 0967-LP-000-0100, EIMB, General, Section 3.
Figure 1-4.—Representative safety shorting probe.
CAUTION
Capacitors and cathode-ray tubes may retain their charge for a considerable
period of time after having been disconnected from the power source.
Always assume there is a voltage present when working with circuits having
high capacitance, even when the circuit has been disconnected from its power
source.
An approved type of shorting probe should be used to discharge capacitors and
cathode-ray tubes individually.
When using the safety shorting probe, always be sure to first connect the test clip to a good ground
(if necessary, scrape the paint off the grounding metal to make a good contact). Then hold the safety
shorting probe by the insulated handle and touch the probe end of the shorting rod to the point to be
shorted out. The probe end is fashioned so that it can be hooked over the part or terminal to provide a
constant connection by the weight of the handle alone. Always take care not to touch any of the metal
parts of the safety shorting probe while touching the probe to the exposed "hot" terminal. It pays to be
safe; use the safety shorting probe with care.
Some equipments are provided with walk-around shorting devices, such as fixed grounding studs or
permanently attached grounding rods. When that is the case, the walk-around shorting devices should be
used rather than the safety shorting probe.
 Q-12. What tool is used to de-energize capacitors in a circuit that has been disconnected from its power
source?
WORKING ON DE-ENERGIZED CIRCUITS
When any electronic equipment is to be repaired or overhauled, certain general safety precautions
should be observed. They are as follows:

===== PDF-side 31 =====

1-17
• Remember that electrical and electronic circuits often have more than one source of power. Take
time to study the schematics or wiring diagrams of the entire system to ensure that all sources of
power have been disconnected
• If pertinent, inform the remote station regarding the circuit on which work will be performed.
• Use one hand when turning switches on or off.
• Safety devices, such as interlocks, overload relays, and fuses, should never be altered or
disconnected except for replacement. In addition, they should never be changed or modified in
any way without specific authorization.
• Fuses should be removed and replaced only after the circuit has been de-energized. When a fuse
"blows," the replacement should be of the same type and have the same current and voltage
ratings. A fuse puller should be used to remove and replace cartridge fuses.
• All circuit breakers and switches from which power could possibly be supplied should be secured
(locked if possible) in the OPEN or OFF (safe) position and danger tagged in accordance with
procedures in the Standard Organization and Regulations of the U.S. Navy, OPNAVINST
3120.32.
• After the work has been completed, the tag (or tags) should be removed only by the same person
who signed it (them) when the work began.
• Keep clothing, hands, and feet dry if at all possible. When you must work in wet or damp
locations, place a rubber mat or other nonconductive material on top of a dry, wooden platform or
stool; then use the platform or stool to sit and stand on. Use insulated tools and insulated
flashlights of the molded type when you are required to work on exposed parts.
GROUNDING OF POWER TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT
The possibility of electrical shock can be reduced by ensuring that all motor and generator frames,
metal bases, and other structural parts of electrical and electronic equipment are at ground potential.
Normally, on steel-hull vessels, such grounds are inherently provided because the metal cases or
frames of the equipment are in contact with one another and with the metal structure of the vessel. In
some instances where such inherent grounding is not provided by the mounting arrangements, such as
equipment supported on shock mounts, suitable ground connections must be provided.
The grounding wire used for this purpose is generally made of flexible material (copper or
aluminum) that provides sufficient current-carrying capacity to ensure an effective ground. In this
manner, equipment cases and frames that are not intended to be above ground potential are effectively
grounded; also, the possibility of electrical shock to personnel coming in contact with metal parts of the
equipment is minimized. The secondary purpose of grounding equipment is to improve the operation and
continuity of service of all equipments.
Paint, grease, or other foreign matter can interfere with the positive metal-to-metal contact at the
ground connection point. Therefore, all bonding surfaces (connection points or metallic junctions) must
be securely fastened and free of such matter. In all instances where equipment grounding is provided,
certain general precautions and preventive maintenance measures must be taken. A few of these
precautions are listed below:

===== PDF-side 32 =====

1-18
• Periodically clean all strap-and-clamp connectors to ensure that all direct metal-to-metal contacts
are free from foreign matter.
• Check all mounting hardware for mechanical failure or loose connections.
• Replace any faulty, rusted, or otherwise unfit grounding strap, clamp, connection, or component
between the equipment and the ground to the ship’ s hull.
• When replacing a part of the ground connection, make certain that the metallic contact surfaces
are clean and that electrical continuity is re-established.
• After completing the foregoing steps, recheck to be sure that the connection is securely fastened
with the correct mounting hardware. Paint the ground strap and hardware in accordance with
current procedures.
Because of the electrical shock hazards that could be encountered aboard ship, plugs and
convenience outlets for use with portable equipment and power tools normally are standard three-prong
type. Both plugs and outlets are keyed so that the plug must be in the correct position before it can be
inserted into the receptacle. To ensure that the safety factors incorporated in these devices are in
serviceable condition and are safe for use, you must perform the following precautions and inspections:
• Inspect the pins of the plug to see that they are firmly in place and are not bent or damaged.
• Check the wiring terminals and connections of the plug. Loose connections and frayed wires on
the plug surface must be corrected and any foreign matter removed before the plug is inserted into
the receptacle.
• Use a meter to ensure that the ground pin has a resistance of less than 1 ohm equipment ground.
• Do not attempt to insert a grounded-type plug into a grounded receptacle without first aligning
the plug properly.
CAUTION
Never use a power tool or a piece of portable test equipment unless you are
absolutely sure that it is equipped with a properly grounded conductor.
BASIC MEASUREMENTS
Electronic measurements involve the fundamental electrical quantities of voltage and current and the
inherent characteristics of resistance, capacitance, and inductance. In circuits being tested, voltage and
current are dependent upon resistance, capacitance, and inductance for their distribution; therefore,
voltage and current measurements are valuable aids in determining circuit component conditions and in
the evaluation of symptoms. Practically any reading obtained from the use of test equipment will depend
on these basic measured quantities of resistance, capacitance, and inductance.

===== PDF-side 33 =====

1-19
VOLTAGE AND CURRENT MEASUREMENTS
Voltage measurements may be made as part of either preventive or corrective maintenance. These
measurements are made using a voltmeter. When compared with voltage charts, these measurements are a
valuable aid in locating a trouble quickly and easily. However, if the sensitivity of the test voltmeter
differs from that of the voltmeter used in preparing the chart, the voltage measurements must be evaluated
before the true circuit conditions can be determined. (Sensitivity in voltmeters was discussed in NEETS,
Module 3, Introduction to Circuit Protection, Control, and Measurement.)
Since many of the troubles you find in equipments and systems are the result of abnormal voltages,
voltage measurements are a valuable aid in locating trouble. You can measure voltage with a voltmeter
without interrupting circuit operation.
Point-to-point voltage measurement charts, usually found in equipment technical manuals, contain
the normal operating voltages found in the various stages of the equipment. These voltages are usually
measured between indicated points and ground unless otherwise stated. When you begin recording
voltage measurements, it is a smart and safe practice to set the voltmeter on the highest range before
measuring. This ensures that excessive voltages existing in the circuit will not cause overloading of the
meter.
 Q-13. On what range should you set the voltmeter prior to taking a voltage measurement?
To increase accuracy, you should then set the voltmeter to the appropriate range for the proper
comparison with the expected voltage in the voltage charts. When checking voltages, remember that a
voltage reading can be obtained across a resistance, even if that resistance is open. The resistance of the
meter itself forms a circuit resistance when the meter probes are placed across the open resistance.
Therefore, the voltage across the component may appear to be normal or near-normal as you read the
meter, but may actually be abnormal when the meter is disconnected from the circuit.
If the internal resistance of the voltmeter is approximately the same value as the resistance being
tested, it will indicate a considerably lower voltage than the actual voltage present when the meter is
removed from the circuit. The sensitivity (in ohms per volt) of the voltmeter used to prepare the voltage
charts is provided on those charts. If a meter of similar sensitivity is available, you should use it to reduce
the effects of loading.
The following precautions are general safety measures that apply to the measurement of voltages.
Remember that nearly all voltages are dangerous and have often proved fatal to careless technicians.
When measuring voltages, be sure to observe the following precautions:
• Set test equipment to the HIGHEST range.
• Make sure safety observer knows where to secure power for the equipment under test.
• Connect the ground lead of the voltmeter first.
• Use only one hand to take measurements (when possible), and put the other hand in your pocket
or behind your back.
• If the voltage to be measured is less than 300 volts, place the end of the test probe on the point to
be tested; use the polarity switch to select positive or negative readings.

===== PDF-side 34 =====

1-20
• If the voltage to be measured is more than 300 volts, proceed as follows:
 1. Shut off circuit power.
 2. Discharge all filter capacitors with a shorting probe.
 3. Temporarily ground the point to be measured.
 4. Connect (clip on) the proper test lead to the high-voltage point.
 5. Move away from the voltmeter.
 6. Turn on circuit power and read the voltmeter.
 7. Turn off circuit power.
 8. Discharge all capacitors before disconnecting the meter.
 Q-14. When taking a voltage measurement, which lead of the voltmeter should you connect to the circuit
first?
Current measurements are not often taken in the course of preventive maintenance or testing. This is
because the ammeter (or other current-measuring instrument) must become an actual part of the
equipment being tested. The circuit must be opened (desoldered) to connect the ammeter in series with
the circuit being tested. Usually, you can take a voltage measurement and use this factor to calculate the
circuit current by applying Ohm’ s law.
 Q-15. Is an ammeter connected in series or in parallel with the circuit under test?
RESISTANCE MEASUREMENTS
Resistance measurements are a valuable aid to you in locating defective circuits and components
during corrective maintenance. Maintenance handbooks for the equipment can often be used to help you
take these measurements. These handbooks often contain resistance charts that are referenced to
accessible test points within the equipment. Without these charts, taking resistance measurements in a
complex circuit is a slow process. The process is slow because one side of the circuit component must
often be desoldered to get a true resistance measurement. However, resistance tolerances vary so widely
that approximate resistance readings are adequate for most jobs.
Once the most accessible test point is found, an ohmmeter is usually used to take the resistance
measurement. Because of the degree of accuracy needed when an ohmmeter is used, proper calibration
and understanding of the meter scales is a must. (Topic 2 of this module will discuss these requirements
in detail.) When using an ohmmeter, you must observe the following precautions:
• The circuit being tested must be completely de-energized.
• Any meters or transistors which can be damaged by the ohmmeter current must be removed
before any measurement is made.
 Q-16. What must be done to a circuit before you can use an ohmmeter for testing?

===== PDF-side 35 =====

1-21
CAPACITANCE MEASUREMENTS
Capacitance measurements are usually taken with a capacitance meter. Capacitance tolerances vary
even more widely than resistance tolerances. Capacitance tolerances depend on the type of capacitor, the
value of capacitance, and the voltage rating. The actual measurement of capacitance is very simple;
however, you must make the important decision of whether to reject or to continue to use the capacitor
after it has been tested.
The POWER FACTOR of a capacitor is important because it is an indication of the various losses of
a capacitor. Power losses can be traced to the dielectric, such as current leakage and dielectric absorption.
Current leakage is of considerable importance, especially in electrolytic capacitors.
 Q-17. What is the term used to refer to the losses which can be traced to the dielectric of a capacitor?
INDUCTANCE MEASUREMENTS
Inductance measurements are seldom required in the course of troubleshooting. However, inductance
measurements are useful in some cases; therefore, bridges (discussed in the next section) are available for
making this test. You will find that many capacitance test sets can be used to measure inductance. Most
capacitance test sets are furnished with inductance conversion charts if the test equipment scale is not
calibrated to read the value of inductance directly.
CAPACITANCE, INDUCTANCE, AND RESISTANCE BRIDGES
You can measure capacitance, inductance, and resistance for precise accuracy by using ac bridges.
These bridges are composed of capacitors, inductors, and resistors in a wide variety of combinations.
These bridges are operated on the principle of a dc bridge called a WHEATSTONE BRIDGE.
Wheatstone Bridge
The Wheatstone bridge is widely used for precision measurements of resistance. The circuit diagram
for a Wheatstone bridge is shown in figure 1-5. Resistors R1, R2, and R3 are precision, variable resistors.
The value of R
x is an unknown value of resistance that must be determined. After the bridge has been
properly balanced (galvanometer G reads zero), the unknown resistance may be determined by means of a
simple formula. The galvanometer (an instrument that measures small amounts of current) is inserted
across terminals b and d to indicate the condition of balance. When the bridge is properly balanced, no
difference in potential exists across terminals b and d; when switch S2 is closed, the galvanometer
reading is zero.

===== PDF-side 36 =====

1-22
Figure 1-5.—Wheatstone bridge.
The operation of the bridge is explained in a few logical steps. When the battery switch S1 is closed,
electrons flow from the negative terminal of the battery to point a. Here the current divides as it would in
any parallel circuit. Part of it passes through R1 and R2; the remainder passes through R3 and Rx. The
two currents, I1 and I2, unite at point c and return to the positive terminal of the battery. The value of I1
depends on the sum of resistance R1 and R2, and the value of I2 depends on the sum of resistances R3 and
Rx. In each case, according to Ohm’ s law, the current is inversely proportional to the resistance.
R1, R2, and R3 are adjusted so that when S1 is closed, no current flows through G. When the
galvanometer shows no deflection, there is no difference of potential between points b and d. All of I 1
follows the a b c path and all I2 follows the a b c path. This means that a voltage drop E1 (across R1
between points a and b) is the same as voltage drop E3 (across R3 between points a and d). Similarly, the
voltage drops across R2 and Rx (E2 and Ex) are also equal. Expressed algebraically,
and
With this information, we can figure the value of the unknown resistor Rx. Divide the voltage drops
across R1 and R3 by their respective voltage drops across R2 and Rx as follows:
We can simplify this equation:

===== PDF-side 37 =====

1-23
then we multiply both sides of the expression by Rx to separate it:
For example, in figure 1-5, we know that R1 is 60 ohms, R2 is 100 ohms, and R3 is 200 ohms. To
find the value of R x, we can use our formula as follows:
Use of ac Bridges
A wide variety of ac bridge circuits (such as the Wheatstone) may be used for the precision
measurement of ac resistance, capacitance, and inductance. Let’ s look at ac bridges in terms of functions
they perform.
RESISTANCE BRIDGE.—An ac signal generator, as shown in figure 1-6, is used as the source of
voltage. Current from the generator passes through resistors R1 and R2, which are known as the ratio
arms, and through R
s and Rx. Again, Rx is known as resistance. Rs has a standard value and replaces R3 in
figure 1-6. When the voltage drops across R2 and Rs are equal, the voltage drops across R2 and Rx are
also equal; no difference of potential exists across the meter and no current flows through it. As we
discovered with the Wheatstone bridge, when no voltage appears across the meter, the following ratio is
true:
Figure 1-6.—Resistance bridge (ac).
For example, if in figure 1-6 we know that R1 is 20 ohms, R2 is 40 ohms, and Rs is 60 ohms, we can
find the value of Rx using our formula as follows:

===== PDF-side 38 =====

1-24
With the ac signal applied to the bridge, R1 and R2 are varied until a zero reading is seen on the
meter. Zero deflection indicates that the bridge is balanced. (NOTE: In actual practice, the variables are
adjusted for a minimum reading since the phase difference between the two legs will not always allow a
zero reading.)
CAPACITANCE BRIDGE.—Because current varies inversely with resistance and directly with
capacitance, an inverse proportion exists between the four arms of the bridge in figure 1-7; the right side
of our expression is inverted from the resistance bridge expression as follows:
or
Figure 1-7.—Capacitance bridge.
 Q-18. What effect does an increase in capacitance have on a capacitor’s opposition to current flow?
Because R1 and R2 are expressed in the same units, the equation R1/R2 becomes a simple
multiplication factor. This equation provides a numerical value for Cx and will be in the same units as Cs
(farad, microfarad, and so forth).

===== PDF-side 39 =====

1-25
Similarly, the following resistance ratio exists between the four arms of the bridge, just as in the
resistance bridge expression discussed earlier:
or
Thus, both the unknown resistance and capacitance, R x and Cx, can be estimated in terms of known
resistance R1, R2, Rs, and known capacitance Cs.
In figure 1-7, for example, we know that R1 is 20 ohms, R2 is 40 ohms, Rs is 60 ohms, and Cs is 10
microfarads. We can find the values of Cx and Rx by using the respective formulas as follows:
and
 Q-19. When a bridge is used to measure resistance, what is the value of Rx if R1 equals 80 ohms, R2
equals 120 ohms, and R3 equals 280 ohms?
INDUCTANCE BRIDGE.—The value of the unknown inductance L x may be determined by means
of the simple bridge circuit shown in figure 1-8. Ratio arms R1 and R2 are accurately calibrated resistors.
Ls is a standard inductor with a known inductance; Rs is the known resistance, and Rx represents the
resistance of the unknown inductor.

===== PDF-side 40 =====

1-26
Figure 1-8.—Inductance bridge.
The ac signal is applied to the bridge, and variable resistors R1 and R2 are adjusted for a minimum
or zero deflection of the meter, indicating a condition of balance. When the bridge is balanced, the
following formulas may be used to find L
x.
(NOTE: The right side of this expression is NOT inverse as it was in the capacitance bridge.)
and
or
In figure 1-8, for example, the values of R1, R2, and Rs are 20, 40, and 60 ohms, respectively. The
value of Ls is 10 millihenries. We can find the values of Rx and Lx by using their respective formulas as
follows:

===== PDF-side 41 =====

1-27
and
Thus, both the unknown resistance and inductance can be estimated in terms of the known values for
R1, R2, Rs, and Ls.
 Q-20. When an unknown capacitance is tested with a bridge, what is the value of Cx if R1 equals 70
ohms, R2 equals 150 ohms, and Cs equals 550 microfarads?
SUMMARY
The important points of this chapter are summarized in the following paragraphs:
The JETDS SYSTEM is jointly used by all branches of the military to identify equipments by a
system of standardized nomenclatures.
GPETE is test equipment that has the capability, without modifications, to generate, modify, or
measure a range of parameters of electronic functions required to test two or more equipments or systems
of basically different design. All GPETE are listed in Standard General Purpose Electronic Test
Equipment, MIL-STD-1364 (series).
SPETE is test equipment that is specifically designed to generate, modify, or measure a range of
parameters of electronic functions of a specific or peculiar nature required to test a single equipment or
system.
The SHIP CONFIGURATION AND LOGISTICS INFORMATION SYSTEM (SCLSIS)
program is designed to keep track of equipment configuration changes in the fleet.
The SCLSIS program has two basic elements, VALIDATION and INVENTORY UPDATING.
The CALIBRATION STATUS of any items of test equipment can be determined by the
information recorded on the calibration label or tag located on the equipment.

===== PDF-side 42 =====

1-28
The CALIBRATED label, with black lettering on a white background, indicates the instrument to
which it is attached is within tolerance on all scales.
The CALIBRATED—REFER TO REPORT  label, with red lettering on a white background, is
used when actual measurement values must be known to use the instrument.
The SPECIAL CALIBRATION label, with black lettering on a yellow background, is used when
some unusual or special condition in the calibration should be drawn to your attention.

===== PDF-side 43 =====

1-29
The USER CALIBRATION label indicates that you should calibrate the test and measuring
instrument instead of sending the instrument to a calibration facility.
The INACTIVE—CALIBRATE BEFORE USE  label is used when a piece of test equipment due
for recalibration will not be used for some time in the future.
The CALIBRATION NOT REQUIRED label is used on test instruments listed in the Metrology
Requirements List (METRL) as not requiring calibration.

===== PDF-side 44 =====

1-30
The REJECTED label is attached to a test instrument that fails to meet the acceptance criteria
during calibration and cannot be repaired.

===== PDF-side 45 =====

1-31
The CALIBRATION VOID IF SEAL BROKEN label is placed over readily accessible
adjustments to prevent tampering by the user when such tampering could affect the calibration.
The MEASURE system is designed to standardize the recall and scheduling of test, measurement,
and diagnostic equipment into calibration facilities and for the documentation of actions performed by the
calibration facility.
MAINTENANCE is work done to correct, reduce, or counteract wear and damage to equipment.
PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE consists of checks to determine weather equipment is
functioning properly. It also consists of visual inspections of cabling and equipment for damage and to
determine if lubrication is needed.
CORRECTIVE MAINTENANCE is used to isolate troubles by means of test techniques and
practices that realign or readjust equipment or otherwise bring the equipment back up to proper
performance.
SENSITIVITY of the voltmeter is always given on the voltage charts for a particular piece of
equipment. You should always use a voltmeter of similar sensitivity to the equipment to diminish the
effects of circuit loading.
CURRENT MEASUREMENTS are not often taken in the course of testing because the ammeter
(or other current measuring device) must become an actual part of the equipment being tested. The circuit
must be opened for necessary connection of the meter. Usually you can use a voltage measurement to
calculate the circuit current by applying Ohm’ s law.
You should observe the following PRECAUTIONS when using an ohmmeter:
1. The circuit being tested must be completely de-energized.
2. Any circuit components which can be damaged by ohmmeter current must be removed before any
measurement is made.
The WHEATSTONE BRIDGE is used for precise measurement of resistance.

===== PDF-side 46 =====

1-32
The CAPACITANCE BRIDGE is used for measuring an unknown capacitance.
An INDUCTANCE BRIDGE is used to find the value of an unknown inductance.

===== PDF-side 47 =====

1-33
ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS Q1. THROUGH Q20.
 A-1. Joint Electronics Type Designation System (JETDS).
 A-2. General-purpose electronic test equipment (GPETE) and special-purpose electronic test
equipment (SPETE).
 A-3. Special-purpose electronic test equipment.
 A-4. Validation and updating.
 A-5. CALIBRATED—REFER TO REPORT.
 A-6. SPECIAL CALIBRATION label.
 A-7. Maintenance personnel.
 A-8. The Chief of Naval Operations.
 A-9. Preventive and corrective maintenance.
 A-10. Corrective maintenance.
 A-11. Current.
 A-12. Shorting probe.
 A-13. Highest.
 A-14. Ground.
 A-15. In series.
 A-16. It must be de-energized.
 A-17. Power losses.
 A-18. Opposition to current flow decreases.
 A-19. 420 ohms.
 A-20. 256 microfarads.

===== PDF-side 48 =====



===== PDF-side 49 =====

2-1
CHAPTER 2
MISCELLANEOUS MEASUREMENTS
LEARNING OBJECTIVES
Upon completing this chapter, you should be able to:
1. Define and explain the use of the terms "dB" and "dBm" as they apply to power measurements.
2. Describe the use of resistive loads, bolometers, and thermocouples in power measurements.
3. Explain the measurement of mechanical rotation using the tachometer, stroboscope, and the
strobotac.
4. Explain the measurement of frequency in various ranges using vibrating reeds, tuned circuits,
heterodyne frequency meters, absorption wavemeters, cavity wavemeters, and frequency
counters.
5. Describe the use of frequency-measurement devices, oscilloscopes, and spectrum analyzers in
waveform analysis and maintenance.
6. Describe semiconductor testing and applicable terms in maintenance.
INTRODUCTION
In chapter 1, you studied test equipment administration and the basic measurements that all
technicians are responsible for performing. Chapter 2 presents miscellaneous measurements that are fairly
common; keep in mind, however, that you may not routinely perform these measurements in your
particular job. This chapter introduces you to several test instruments and components found in those test
instruments. It will also serve as a review of some of the basics of electronic theory related to test
equipment.
POWER MEASUREMENTS
You may be required to check the power consumption and the input-signal power levels of electronic
equipment. The determination of dc power is fairly simple; recall that the unit of power, the watt, is the
product of the potential in volts and the current in amperes (P = E 
· I).
As discussed in NEETS, Module 2, Introduction to Alternating Current and Transformers, the phase
angle of the voltage and current must be considered for accurate ac power measurements. The
measurement of ac power is further complicated by the frequency limitations of various power meters. If
there is no phase angle difference, you can compute ac power in the same manner as dc power; that is, by
determining the effective value of the product of the voltage and current.
For equipments that operate in the audio-frequency (af) range, power levels have to be determined in
the performance of routine checks and during corrective maintenance procedures.

===== PDF-side 50 =====

2-2
Power measurements for af circuits are usually indicated in terms of decibels (dB) or decibels
referenced to 1 milliwatt (dBm). Because the actual calculation of decibel measurements is seldom
required, the following explanation is somewhat simplified. Most test equipment is designed to measure
and indicate decibels directly. This eliminates the need for you to perform complicated calculations.
Nevertheless, a basic explanation of the decibel measurement system is necessary for you to understand
the significance of dB readings and amplifier-gain ratings that are expressed in decibels.
THE DECIBEL SYSTEM
The basic unit of measurement in the system is not the decibel; it is the bel. The bel is a unit that
expresses the logarithmic ratio between the input and the output of any given component, circuit, or
system. It may be expressed in terms of voltage, current, or power. Most often, it is used to show the ratio
between input and output power to figure gain. You can express the power gain of the amplifier (N) in
bels by dividing the output (P
1) by the input (P2) and taking the base 10 logarithm of the resulting
quotient. The formula for determining this gain is:
If an amplifier doubles the input power, the quotient of P1 to P2 will be 2. If you consult a logarithm
table, you will find that the base 10 logarithm of 2 is 0.3, making the power gain of the amplifier 0.3 bel.
 Q-1. What is the logarithmic ratio between the input and output of a given circuit called?
Experience has shown that because the bel is a rather large unit, it is difficult to apply. A more
practical unit, and one that can be used more easily, is the decibel (1/10 bel). You can convert any figure
expressed in bels to decibels by multiplying that figure by 10 or simply by moving the decimal point one
place to the right. Applying this rule, we find that the above ratio of 0.3 bel is equal to 3 decibels.
The decibel (dB) cannot be used to represent actual power; only the ratio of one power compared to
another. To say that an amplifier has a 3 dB gain means that the output power is twice the input power.
This gives no indication of the actual power represented. You must be able to state the input power for it
to be meaningful. In many applications, a mathematical expression represents the actual power, not a
power ratio. One standard reference is the dBm.
The dBm is an abbreviation used to represent power levels above or below 1 milliwatt. Negative
dBm (-dBm) represents power levels below 1 milliwatt, and positive dBm (+dBm) represents power
levels above 1 milliwatt. In other words, a dBm value is a specific amount of power; 0 dBm is equal to 1
milliwatt. Briefly stated, the amount of power in a given value of dBm is the power which results if 1
milliwatt is amplified or attenuated by that dB value. For example, 40 dBm represents an actual power
level (watts or milliwatts) that is 40 dB above 1 milliwatt, whereas -10 dBm represents a power level that
is 10 dB below 1 milliwatt. The formula for finding dBm is a variation of the dB power formula:
 Q-2. What term is used to represent power levels above or below a 1-milliwatt reference?

===== PDF-side 51 =====

2-3
You do not need to use the formula in most applications. The following shows conversions of dBm
to mW:
+20dBm = 100mW
+10dBm = 10mW
+7dBm = 5mW
+6dBm = 4mW
+4dBm = 2.5mW
+3dBm = 2mW
0dBm = 1mW
-3dBm = .5mW
-10dBm = .1mW
For a +10 dBm level, start with the 1 milliwatt reference and move the decimal point one place to the
right (+10 dBm = 10 mW). Another 10 dB increment brings the power level to +20 dBm, thereby moving
the decimal point another place to the right (+20 dBm = 100 mW). For a -10 dBm level, again start with
1 milliwatt, but this time move the decimal point one place to the left (-10 dBm = .1 mW). An additional
10 dB decrease results in another decimal point shift to the left (-20 dBm = .01 mW).
For a 3 dB increase, you double the power. For a 3 dB decrease, you reduce the power by one-half
(+3 dBm = 2 mW and -3 dBm = .5 mW). A +6 dBm level is an additional 3 dB change from +3 dBm. In
this case, you just double the power level of the +3 dBm (+6 dBm = 4 mW).
 Q-3. What milliwatt value is equal to +6 dBm?
The dB change can be made in either direction. For example, +7 dBm is a decrease from +10 dBm.
Reducing the +10 dBm power by one-half, we have +7 dBm, or 5 mW. A +4 dBm power level is a 3 dB
decrease from +7 dBm (+4 dBm - 2.5 mW). By using this simple method, you can quickly find any
power level that corresponds to a given dBm.
Some test instruments you will be using are calibrated in decibels and have a 1 milliwatt zero
reference level. Figure 2-1 illustrates such an instrument. Notice that this is an ac voltmeter in which the
upper scale of the meter indicates ac voltage and the lower scale indicates decibels. The zero power-level
indicator on the decibel scale is located at, or near, center scale. If the power in the line being measured is
more than the reference value, the meter will indicate a value to the right of the zero mark (+dB). If the
power is less than the reference value, the meter will indicate a value to the left of the zero mark (-dB).
Such meters are useful when recording measurements where a direct indication in decibels is desired.
However, you must remember that this meter is still a voltmeter and that power measurements are not
meaningful unless the circuit impedance is known. If you feel the need to review how to calculate power
in ac circuits, refer to NEETS, Module 2.

===== PDF-side 52 =====

2-4
Figure 2-1.—Ac voltmeter.
MEASUREMENT METHODS
At radio frequencies below the UHF range, power is usually determined by voltage, current, and
impedance measurements. One common method used to determine the output power of radio-frequency
(rf) oscillators and radio transmitters consists of connecting a known resistance to the equipment output
terminals. Current flowing through this resistance is then measured and the power is calculated as the
product of I
2R.
Because power is proportional to the current squared, the meter scale can be calibrated to indicate
power units directly. A THERMOCOUPLE AMMETER can be used in this manner for measuring rf
power. The resistor used to replace the normal load is specially designed to have low reactance and the
ability to dissipate the required amount of power. Such resistors are commonly called DUMMY LOADS
or DUMMY ANTENNAS.
 Q-4. What name is given to a resistor used to replace the normal load in a circuit?
In the UHF and SHF frequency ranges, accurately measuring the voltage, current, and resistance is
difficult. These basic measurements can vary greatly, depending on where in the circuit the measurements
are made. They are also affected by small changes in parts placement in the vicinity of tuned circuits.

===== PDF-side 53 =====

2-5
To measure the output of microwave radio or radar transmitters, you can use test instruments that
convert rf power to another form of energy, such as light or heat. These instruments can be used to
indirectly measure the power. A method used to measure the effect of a resistor load on a stream of
passing air can also be used to indirectly measure power. Accurate measurement of large-magnitude
power also can be achieved by measuring the temperature change of a water load. The most common type
of power meter for use in this frequency range employs a BOLOMETER.
Bolometer
The bolometer is a loading device that undergoes changes of resistance as changes in dissipated
power occur. The two types of bolometers are the BARRETTER and the THERMISTOR. The barretter is
characterized by an increase in resistance as the dissipated power rises. The thermistor decreases in
resistance as the power increases. In either case, resistance is measured before and after the application of
rf power. If the same change in resistance is then produced by a variable dc source of power, then the rf
power is equal to the measured dc power. This relationship makes possible the direct calibration of a
bridge circuit in units of power. In other words, one condition of balance exists when no rf power is
applied; but in the presence of power, a second condition of balance exists because of the resistance
changes of the bolometer. It is this change of resistance that is calibrated in power.
 Q-5. What are the two types of bolometers?
BARRETTER.—The construction of a typical barretter is shown in figure 2-2. The fine wire
(usually tungsten) is extremely small in diameter. This thin diameter allows the rf current to penetrate to
the center of the wire. The wire is supported in an insulating capsule between two metallic ends, which
act as connectors. Because of these physical characteristics, the barretter resembles a cartridge-type fuse.
The enclosure is a quartz capsule made in two parts. One part is an insert cemented in place after the
tungsten wire has been mounted. In operation, the barretter is matched to the rf line after power is applied.
Figure 2-2.—Typical barretter.
THERMISTOR.—A high degree of precision is made possible by the thermistor; therefore, it is
widely used. Figure 2-3 shows the typical construction of a bead-type thermistor. The negative-
temperature coefficient comes from the use of a semiconductor as the active material. Notice that the

===== PDF-side 54 =====

2-6
active material is shaped in the form of a bead. It is supported between two pigtail leads by connecting
wires. The pigtail ends are embedded in the ends of the surrounding glass capsule.
Figure 2-3.—Bead-type thermistor.
The negative-resistance temperature coefficient of thermistors is desirable. This is because excessive
power has the effect of changing the resistance of the thermistor to an extent that causes a pronounced rf
mismatch. The resulting decrease in power transfer reduces the likelihood of burnout.
Thermistor Bridge
Figure 2-4, views A and B, is an example of a THERMISTOR BRIDGE used for rf power
measurements. A thermistor bridge circuit includes other thermistor elements, referred to as
compensating thermistors. These thermistors respond to fluctuations in ambient temperature so that the
bridge balances and calibration are maintained over a wide temperature range. Compensating thermistors
are usually in disc form so that they can be mounted on a flat metal surface, such as a chassis or a
waveguide. The thermistor bridge in view B is located in the terminating section of a waveguide and
contains RT-2, a bead thermistor, and two compensating thermistors, RT-1 and RT-3, on the outside of
the waveguide (view A). RA-1 in view B, a calibrated attenuator, controls the amount of rf energy applied
to RT-2.

===== PDF-side 55 =====

2-7
Figure 2-4.—Thermistor bridge.
Before power is applied, R1 and R2 in view A of figure 2-4 are used to adjust the current through
RT-2. When the resistance of RT-2 reaches the equivalent parallel resistance of R6 and RT1 (122.4
ohms), the bridge is balanced. Meter M-1 reads 0 at this time. The rf signal being measured is connected
to the test set and applied via the calibrated attenuator to RT-2. This causes the temperature of RT-2 to
increase, thus reducing its resistance. The bridge becomes unbalanced, causing meter M-1 to deflect an
amount proportional to the decrease in resistance of RT-2. Meter M-1, because of the operation of RT-2,
reads average power.
 Q-6. As the dissipated power increases, what effect does this have on the resistance of a thermistor?
If the ambient temperature rises, the resistance of RT-1 decreases. This shunts more current around
the bridge network and allows RT-2 to cool. The resistance of RT-3 decreases, maintaining meter
sensitivity independent of temperature changes. Cavity Z-1 in view B of figure 2-4 is an ABSORPTION-
TYPE FREQUENCY METER. This type of meter will be discussed later.
FREQUENCY MEASUREMENTS
Frequency measurements are an essential part of preventive and corrective maintenance for electric
and electronic equipment. Some examples of the various frequency measurements follow:
• Rotation frequencies of some electro-mechanical devices, such as electric motors, must be
determined.

===== PDF-side 56 =====

2-8
• The output frequency of electric power generators is checked when the engine is started and
during preventive maintenance routines.
• Equipment that operates in the af range must be adjusted to operate at the correct frequencies.
• Radio transmitters must be accurately tuned to the assigned frequencies to provide reliable
communications and to avoid interference with radio circuits operating on other frequencies.
• Radar sets must be properly tuned to obtain satisfactory performance.
As you can see from the above examples, frequency measurement does indeed play a valuable role in
maintenance. These measurements can be divided into two broad categories: MECHANICAL-
ROTATION FREQUENCY measurement and ELECTRICAL-OUTPUT FREQUENCY measurement.
Depending upon your job and/or the type of command to which you are assigned, you may be tasked with
performing one or both of these types of measurements.
MECHANICAL-ROTATION FREQUENCY MEASUREMENT
The rotating frequency (speed in revolutions per minute) of armatures in electric motors and engine-
driven generators, as well as the blade speed in turbines, is measured with devices called
TACHOMETERS, STROBOSCOPES, and STROBOTACS.
Tachometer
A tachometer is an instrument that measures the rate at which a shaft is turning. Although
tachometers are installed on machinery, such as generators and engines, you may need to determine the
speed of a rotating machine that is not equipped with a tachometer. In these instances, you will be
required to use a PORTABLE TACHOMETER. Portable hand-held tachometers measure speed by direct
contact with the shaft of the measured unit. Portable tachometers are for use only during testing and
should not be used continuously. The common types of portable tachometers are the CENTRIFUGAL
and the CHRONOMETRIC.
CENTRIFUGAL TACHOMETER.—A centrifugal-type tachometer is illustrated in figure 2-5,
view A. View B shows the internal arrangement of the centrifugal tachometer; refer to view B in this
discussion. In the centrifugal tachometer, centrifugal force acts upon fly weights that are connected by
links to upper and lower collars. The upper collar is affixed to a drive shaft; the lower collar is free to
move up and down the shaft. A spring, which fits over the shaft, connects the upper and lower collars.

===== PDF-side 57 =====

2-9
Figure 2-5.—Centrifugal tachometer.
Each portable centrifugal tachometer has a small rubber-covered wheel and a number of hard rubber
tips. You fit the appropriate tip or wheel on the end of the tachometer drive shaft, and hold it against the
shaft to measure speed of rotation. As the drive shaft begins to rotate, the fly weights rotate with it.
Centrifugal force tends to pull the fly weights away from the center, causing the lower collar to rise and
compress the spring. The lower collar is attached to a pointer, and its upward motion, restricted by the
spring tension, causes an increase in the indication on the dial face.
When properly used, a centrifugal tachometer will indicate correct shaft speed as long as it is in
contact with the machine shaft under test. A portable centrifugal tachometer has three ranges: low (50 to
500 rpm), medium (500 to 5,000 rpm), and high (5,000 to 50,000 rpm).
CHRONOMETRIC TACHOMETER.—The chronometric tachometer (figure 2-6) is a
combination watch and revolution counter. It measures the average number of revolutions of a shaft per
minute. The chronometric tachometer also comes with hard rubber tips, which must be inserted over the
drive shaft.

===== PDF-side 58 =====

2-10
Figure 2-6.—Chronometric tachometer.
When applied to a rotating shaft, the outer drive shaft of this tachometer runs free until a starting
button is depressed to start the timing element. In figure 2-6, note the starting button beneath the index
finger. The chronometric tachometer retains readings on its dial after its drive shaft has been disengaged
from a rotating shaft and until the pointers are returned to 0 by the reset button (usually the starting
button). The range of a chronometric tachometer is usually from 0 to 10,000 rpm and from 0 to 3,000 feet
per minute (fpm).
Stroboscope
The rotation frequencies of recording devices and teletypewriter motors can be measured by the use
of a STROBOSCOPE. The stroboscope is an instrument that allows you to view rotating or reciprocating
objects intermittently and produces the optical effect of a slowing down or stopping motion. For example,
electric fan blades revolving at 1,800 rpm will appear stationary if you look at them under a light that
flashes uniformly 1,800 times per minute. At 1,799 flashes per minute, the blades will appear to rotate
forward at 1 rpm; at 1,801 flashes per minute, they will appear to rotate backward at 1 rpm.
When the flashing rate of the light is adjustable, you can calibrate the control in flashes (or
revolutions) per minute. The stationary image you see when the rate of the lamp and the rotational rate of
a shaft are equal lets you record a very precise speed measurement.
Strobotac
The STROBOTAC (figure 2-7) is an electronic flash device in which the flash duration is very short
(a few millionths of a second). (Table 2-1 contains a description of the controls and indicators shown on
the strobotac in figure 2-7.) Because of this short flash duration, the strobotac can measure very rapid
motion. The box contains a swivel mount with a STROBOTRON LAMP in a reflector, an electronic
pulse generator to control the flashing rate, and a power supply that operates from the ac power line. The
flashing rate is controlled by the large knob; the corresponding speed (rpm) is indicated on an illuminated
dial that is viewed through windows in the knob.

===== PDF-side 59 =====

2-11
Figure 2-7.—Electronic strobotac.
Table 2-1.—Strobotac Controls and Indicators
CONTROLS AND INDICATORS  (see figure 2-7)
NO NAME USE
1. POWER switch Turns power on and off.
2. RPM control Controls the flashing rate of light as the fluted rim is rotated.
Dial is calibrated directly in revolutions per minute (rpm).
3. Range switch Selects any of three rpm (internal oscillator) ranges, plus three
external-input positions:
Rpm ranges Intensity External input
110-690 rpm     High      700 rpm max
170-4170 rpm    Med     4000 rpm max*
4000-25,000 rpm  Low    25,000 rpm max
4. CALibration indicator lamp Indicates the correct setting of CALibration adjustments for
calibrating the RPM dial to power-line frequency.
5. HIGH CAL, LOW CAL Calibration adjustments used to calibrate the RPM dial.
6. OUTPUT TRIGGER jack A trigger pulse is available at this jack for strobotac types
1531, 1538, stroboslave type 1539, and strobolume type 1532.
7. INPUT jack Used for connecting the stroboscope to an external
synchronizing signal from the electrical device or mechanical
contactor.
8. Reflector-lamp assembly Produces and aims the flashing light.
9. Power cord A permanently attached 6-foot power cord. For storage, the
cord is wound clockwise around the range-switch knob and
reflector. The plug is secured by sliding it onto the holding
pin.
10. Holder pin Used to secure the plug-end of the power cord when unit is to
be stored in its case.
* Flashes at 3600 rpm until external signal is plugged in.

===== PDF-side 60 =====

2-12
The normal speed range is from 110 to 25,000 rpm. At speeds below 600 rpm, "flicker" becomes a
problem because the human eye cannot retain successive images long enough to create the illusion of
continuous motion. The life of the strobotron lamp is approximately 250 hours if used at flashing speeds
of less than 5,000 rpm, or 100 hours if used at higher speeds.
ELECTRICAL OUTPUT FREQUENCY
All alternating voltage sources are generated at a set frequency or range of frequencies. A
FREQUENCY METER provides a means of measuring this frequency. The electrical output frequency of
ac power generators can be measured by a vibrating reed, a tuned circuit, or by a crossed-coil, iron-vane
type meter. The vibrating-reed device is the simplest type of frequency meter. It has the advantage of
being rugged enough to be mounted on generator control panels.
A simplified diagram of a vibrating-reed frequency meter is shown in figure 2-8, views A through D.
In view A, you can see that the current to be measured flows through the coil and exerts maximum
attraction on the soft-iron armature twice during each cycle. The armature is attached to the bar, which is
mounted on a flexible support. Reeds of suitable dimensions to have natural vibration frequencies of 110,
112, 114, and so forth, up to 130 hertz are mounted on the bar (view B). The reed with a frequency of 110
hertz is marked 55 hertz; the one with a frequency of 112 hertz is marked 56 hertz; the one with a
frequency of 120 hertz is marked 60 hertz, and so forth.
Figure 2-8.—Vibrating-reed frequency meter.

===== PDF-side 61 =====

2-13
When the coil is energized by a current with a frequency between 55 and 65 hertz, all the reeds are
vibrated slightly; but, the reed having a natural frequency closest to that of the energizing current vibrates
through a larger amplitude. The frequency is read from the scale value opposite the reed having the
greatest amplitude of vibration.
In some instruments, the reeds are the same length; but they are weighted by different amounts at the
top so they will have different natural rates of vibration. An end view of the reeds in the indicator is
shown in view C. If the energizing current has a frequency of 60 hertz, the reed marked 60 will vibrate the
greatest amount, as shown. View D shows a hand-held vibrating-reed frequency meter mounted on the
casing of a motor-generator.
Tuned Circuits
TUNED CIRCUITS are used as filters for the passage or rejection of specific frequencies.
BANDPASS FILTERS and BAND-REJECT FILTERS are examples of this type. Tuned circuits have
certain characteristics that make them ideal for certain types of filters, especially where a high degree of
selectivity is desired. A series-tuned circuit offers a low impedance to currents of the particular frequency
to which the circuit is tuned and a relatively high impedance to currents of all other frequencies. A
parallel-tuned circuit, on the other hand, offers a very high impedance to currents of its natural, or
resonant, frequency and a relatively low impedance to others. If you feel you need to review the subject of
tuned circuits at this time, refer to NEETS, Module 9, Introduction to Wave-Generation and Wave-
Shaping Circuits, for more information on these circuits and their applications.
AUDIO FREQUENCIES
Frequency measurements in the af range can be made by the comparison method or the direct-
reading frequency meter. Frequency comparisons can be made by the use of a calibrated af generator in
conjunction with either an oscilloscope or a modulator and a zero-beat indicating device. Direct-reading
frequency measurements can be made by instruments using series, frequency-selective electrical
networks, bridge test sets having null indicators, or counting-type frequency meters.
Heterodyne Frequency Meters
Heterodyne frequency meters are available in several varieties. They measure the frequency of the
unknown signal by matching the unknown signal with a locally generated signal of the same frequency
obtained from a calibrated, precision oscillator. This method is normally referred to as  zero beating.
When a perfect frequency match is obtained, it is indicated by the absence of a beat note (zero beat). The
technician generally uses a set of headphones to detect a zero-beat condition in the equipment being
tested.
The basic heterodyne meter (figure 2-9) is a calibrated variable oscillator, which heterodynes against
the frequency to be measured. Coupling is accomplished between the frequency meter and the output of
the equipment under test. (NOTE: This coupling should be in accordance with the step-by-step
procedures listed in the technical manual for the frequency meter.) The calibrated oscillator is then tuned
so that the difference between the oscillator frequency and the unknown frequency is in the af range. This
difference in frequency is known as the BEAT FREQUENCY. As the two frequencies are brought closer
to the same value, the tone in the headset will decrease in pitch until it is replaced by a series of rapid
clicks. As the process is continued, the clicks will decrease in rapidity until they stop altogether. This is
the point of zero beat; that is, the point at which the frequency generated in the oscillator of the frequency
meter is equal to the frequency of the unknown signal being measured.

===== PDF-side 62 =====

2-14
Figure 2-9.—Basic heterodyne meter (block diagram).
 Q-7. In a heterodyne-type frequency meter, what is the difference between the oscillator frequency and
the unknown frequency?
For all practical purposes, the point of zero beat can be assumed when the clicks are heard at
infrequent intervals. Figure 2-10 illustrates the zero-beat concept. Maintaining a condition of absolute
silence in the earphones is extremely difficult when you are making this measurement. When the
incoming signal is strong, the clicks are sharp and distinct. When the signal is weak, the zero-beat
condition is evidenced by a slowly changing "swishing" or "rushing" sound in the headset. After the zero
beat is obtained, the dial reading corresponds to the frequency measured.
Figure 2-10.—Graph of sound heard in earphone when zero beating.

===== PDF-side 63 =====

2-15
The manufacturer’ s calibration book is a very important part of the frequency meter package; in fact,
the book is so important that it bears the same serial number as the heterodyne-type frequency meter
itself. Contained in this book is a list of the dial settings and the corresponding frequencies produced by
that meter at those dial settings. Operating instructions for the meter are also included.
Absorption Wavemeter
WAVEMETERS are calibrated resonant circuits used to measure frequency. The accuracy of
wavemeters is not as high as that of heterodyne-type frequency meters; however, they have the advantage
of being comparatively simple and can be easily carried.
 Q-8. What equipment uses a calibrated resonant circuit to measure frequency?
Any type of resonant circuit can be used in wavemeter applications. The exact kind of circuit used
depends on the frequency range for which the meter is intended. Resonant circuits consisting of coils and
capacitors are used for VLF through VHF wavemeters.
The simplified illustration of an absorption wavemeter, shown in figure 2-11, consists of a pickup
coil, a fixed capacitor, a lamp, a variable capacitor, and a calibrated dial. When the wavemeter’ s
components are at resonance, maximum current flows in the loop, illuminating the lamp to maximum
brilliance. The calibrated dial setting is converted to a frequency by means of a chart, or graph, in the
instruction manual. If the lamp glows very brightly, the wavemeter should be coupled more loosely to the
circuit. For greatest accuracy, the wavemeter should be coupled so that its indicator lamp provides only a
faint glow when tuned to the resonant frequency.
Figure 2-11.—Absorption wavemeter circuit.
FREQUENCIES ABOVE THE AUDIO RANGE
The signal frequencies of radio and radar equipments that operate in the UHF and SHF ranges can be
measured by resonant, cavity-type wavemeters or resonant, coaxial-line-type wavemeters. When properly
calibrated, resonant-cavity and resonant-coaxial line wavemeters are more accurate and have better
stability than wavemeters used for measurements in the LF to VHF ranges. These frequency-measuring
instruments are often furnished as part of the equipment. They are also available as general-purpose test
sets.

===== PDF-side 64 =====

2-16
Although many wavemeters are used in performing various functions, the cavity-type wavemeter is
the type most commonly used. Only this type is discussed in some detail.
Cavity Wavemeter
Figure 2-12 shows a typical CAVITY WAVEMETER. The wavemeter is of the type commonly used
for the measurement of microwave frequencies. The device uses a resonant cavity. The resonant
frequency of the cavity is varied by means of a plunger, which is mechanically connected to a micrometer
mechanism. Movement of the plunger into the cavity reduces the cavity size and increases the resonant
frequency. Conversely, an increase in the size of the cavity (made by withdrawing the plunger) lowers the
resonant frequency. The microwave energy from the equipment being tested is fed into the wavemeter
through one of two inputs, A or B. The crystal rectifier then detects (rectifies) the signal. The rectified
current is indicated on current meter M.
Figure 2-12.—Typical cavity wavemeter.
Electronic Frequency Counters
Another device used to measure frequencies above the audio range is the ELECTRONIC
FREQUENCY COUNTER. Since this instrument will be covered in detail in a later chapter, only a brief
description is provided at this time.
The electronic frequency counter is a high-speed electronic counter with an accurate, crystal-
controlled time base. This combination provides a frequency counter that automatically counts and
displays the number of events occurring in a precise time interval. The frequency counter itself does not
generate any signal; it merely counts the recurring pulses fed to it.

===== PDF-side 65 =====

2-17
WAVEFORM ANALYSIS
WAVEFORM ANALYSIS can be made by observing displays of voltage and current variations with
respect to time or by harmonic analysis of complex signals. Waveform displays are particularly valuable
for adjusting and testing pulse-generating, pulse-forming, and pulse-amplifying circuits. The waveform
visual display is also useful for determining signal distortion, phase shift, modulation factor, frequency,
and peak-to-peak voltage.
Waveform analysis is used in various electrical and electronic equipment troubleshooting. This
section will briefly discuss the oscilloscope and spectrum analyzer to provide you with basic knowledge
of this test equipment.
 Q-9. Name two instruments used to analyze waveforms.
USE OF THE OSCILLOSCOPE
The CATHODE-RAY OSCILLOSCOPE (CRO or O-SCOPE) is commonly used for the analysis of
waveforms generated by electronic equipment. Several types of cathode-ray oscilloscopes are available
for making waveform analysis. The oscilloscope required for a particular test is determined by
characteristics such as input-frequency response, input impedance, sensitivity, sweep rate, and the
methods of sweep control. The SYNCHROSCOPE is an adaptation of the cathode-ray oscilloscope. It
features a wide-band amplifier, triggered sweep, and retrace blanking circuits. These circuits are desirable
for the analysis of pulse waveforms.
Oscilloscopes are also part of some harmonic analysis test equipments that display harmonic energy
levels. To effectively analyze waveform displays, you must know the correct wave shape. The
maintenance instructions manual for each piece of equipment illustrates what waveforms you should
observe at the various test points throughout the equipment. Waveforms that will be observed at any one
selected test point will differ; each waveform will depend on whether the operation of the equipment is
normal or abnormal.
The display observed on a cathode-ray oscilloscope is ordinarily one similar to those shown in figure
2-13. Views A and B show the instantaneous voltage of the wave plotted against time. Elapsed time (view
A) is indicated by horizontal distance, from left to right, across the etched grid (graticule) placed over the
face of the tube. The amplitude (view B) of the wave is measured vertically on the graph.

===== PDF-side 66 =====

2-18
Figure 2-13.—Typical waveform displays.
The oscilloscope is also used to picture changes in quantities other than simply the voltages in
electric circuits. For example, if you need to see the changes in waveform of an electric current, you must
first send the current through a small resistor. You can then use the oscilloscope to view the voltage wave
across the resistor. Other quantities, such as temperatures, pressures, speeds, and accelerations, can be
translated into voltages by means of suitable transducers and then viewed on the oscilloscope. A detailed
discussion of the oscilloscope is presented in chapter 6 of this module.
USE OF THE SPECTRUM ANALYZER
The SPECTRUM ANALYZER is a device that sweeps over a band of frequencies to determine (1)
what frequencies are being produced by a specific circuit under test and (2) the amplitude of each
frequency component. To accomplish this, the spectrum analyzer first presents a pattern on a display.
Then the relative amplitudes of the various frequencies of the spectrum of the pattern are plotted (see
figure 2-14). On the vertical, or Y axis, the amplitudes are plotted; on the horizontal, or X axis, the
frequencies (time base) are plotted. The overall pattern of this display indicates the proportion of power
present at the various frequencies within the SPECTRUM (fundamental frequency with sideband
frequencies).

===== PDF-side 67 =====

2-19
Figure 2-14.—Spectrum analyzer pattern.
 Q-10. What device sweeps a band of frequencies to determine frequencies and amplitudes of each
frequency component?
The spectrum analyzer is used to examine the frequency spectrum of radar transmissions, local
oscillators, test sets, and other equipment operating within its frequency range. Proper interpretation of
the displayed frequency spectrum enables you to determine the degree of efficiency of the equipment
under test. With experience, you will be able to determine definite areas of malfunctioning components
within equipment. In any event, successful spectrum analysis depends on the proper operation of a
spectrum analyzer and your ability to correctly interpret the displayed frequencies. Later, in chapter 6, we
will discuss the various controls, indicators, and connectors contained on the spectrum analyzer.
TESTING SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES
Because of the reliability of semiconductor devices, servicing techniques developed for
transistorized equipment differ from those normally used for electron-tube circuits. Electron tubes are
usually considered to be the circuit component most susceptible to failure and are normally the first
components to be tested. Transistors, however, are capable of operating in excess of 30,000 hours at
maximum rating without failure. They are often soldered in the circuit in much the same manner as
resistors and capacitors. Therefore, they are NOT so quickly removed for testing as tubes.
Substitution of a semiconductor diode or transistor known to be in good condition is one method of
determining the quality of a questionable semiconductor device. This method should be used only after
you have made voltage and resistance measurements. This ensures the circuit has no defect that might

===== PDF-side 68 =====

2-20
damage the substitute semiconductor device. If more than one defective semiconductor is present in the
equipment section where trouble has been localized, the semiconductor replacement method becomes
cumbersome. Several semiconductors may have to be replaced before the trouble is corrected. To
determine which stage(s) failed and which semiconductors are not defective, you must test all the
removed semiconductors. You can do this by observing whether the equipment operates correctly as you
reinsert each of the removed semiconductor devices into the equipment.
TESTING DIODES
Semiconductor diodes, such as general-purpose germanium and silicon diodes, power silicon diodes,
and microwave silicon diodes, can be tested effectively under actual operating conditions. However,
crystal-rectifier testers are available to determine dc characteristics that provide an indication of crystal-
diode quality.
A common type of crystal-diode test set is a combination ohmmeter-ammeter. Measurements of
forward resistance, back resistance, and reverse current can be made with this equipment. Using the
results of these measurements, you can determine the relative condition of these components by
comparing their measured values with typical values obtained from test information furnished with the
test set or from the manufacturer’ s data sheets. A check that provides a rough indication of the rectifying
property of a diode is the comparison of the back-and-forward resistance of the diode at a specified
voltage. A typical back-to-forward-resistance ratio is on the order of 10 to 1, and a forward-resistance
value of 50 to 80 ohms is common.
 Q-11. What is the typical back-to-forward resistance ratio of a good-quality diode?
Testing Diodes with an Ohmmeter
A convenient test for a semiconductor diode requires only an ohmmeter. The back-and-forward
resistance can be measured at a voltage determined by the battery potential of the ohmmeter and the
resistance range at which the meter is set. When the test leads of the ohmmeter are connected to the diode,
a resistance will be measured that is different from the resistance indicated if the leads are reversed. The
smaller value is called the FORWARD RESISTANCE, and the larger value is called the BACK
RESISTANCE. If the ratio of back-to-forward resistance is greater than 10 to 1, the diode should be
capable of functioning as a rectifier. However, keep in mind that this is a very limited test that does not
take into account the action of the diode at voltages of different magnitudes and frequencies. (NOTE:
This test should never be used to test crystal mixer diodes in radars. It will destroy their sensitivity.)
Testing Diodes with Oscilloscopes
An oscilloscope can be used to graphically display the back-and-forward resistance characteristics of
a crystal diode. A circuit used in conjunction with an oscilloscope to make this test is shown in figure 2-
15. This circuit uses the oscilloscope line-test voltage as the test signal. A series circuit (composed of
resistor R1 and the internal resistance in the line-test circuit) decreases a 3-volt, open-circuit test voltage
to a value of approximately 2 volts peak to peak.

===== PDF-side 69 =====

2-21
Figure 2-15.—Testing semiconductor diodes with an oscilloscope.
The test signal applied to the crystal diode is also connected to the horizontal input of the
oscilloscope. The horizontal sweep represents the voltage applied to the diode under test. The voltage
developed across current-measuring resistor R2 is applied to the vertical input of the oscilloscope.
Because this voltage is proportional to the current through the diode being tested, the vertical deflection
will indicate crystal current. The resulting oscilloscope trace for a normal diode is similar to the curve
shown in figure 2-16.
Figure 2-16.—Characteristic curve of a semiconductor diode.
To test Zener diodes, you must use a higher voltage than the oscilloscope line-test signal. This test
can be made with a diode test set or with the circuit shown in figure 2-17. In this circuit, rheostat R1 is
used to adjust the input voltage to a suitable value for the Zener diode being tested. Resistor R2 limits the
current through the diode. The signal voltage applied to the diode is also connected to the horizontal input
of the oscilloscope. The voltage developed across current-measuring resistor R3 is applied to the vertical
input of the oscilloscope. The horizontal sweep represents the applied voltage, and the vertical deflection
indicates the current through the diode being tested. Figure 2-18 shows the characteristic pattern of a
Zener diode. Note the sharp increase in current at the Zener voltage (avalanche) point. For the Zener
diode to be usable, this voltage must be within limits specified by the manufacturer.

===== PDF-side 70 =====

2-22
Figure 2-17.—Testing a Zener diode.
Figure 2-18.—Zener diode characteristic curve.
TESTING TRANSISTORS
Most transistorized equipments use printed circuit boards on which components are neatly arranged.
This arrangement makes the transistors and other components easy to reach while you are troubleshooting
and servicing the equipment. While investigating with test probes, however, you must be careful to
prevent damage to the printed wiring.
One of the outstanding advantages of transistors is their reliability. Tube failures account for over 90
percent of the failures in electron-tube equipments. Transistors, however, are long lived. This factor,
among others, decreases maintenance required to keep transistorized equipment operating. The techniques
used in testing transistorized equipment are similar to those for maintaining electron-tube circuits.
Basically, these techniques include several checks and inspections.
Power Supply Checks
When using test equipment to localize a trouble, you should check the power supply to see that its
output voltages are present and of the correct values. Improper power supply voltages can cause odd
effects. You will prevent many headaches by checking the power supply first.

===== PDF-side 71 =====

2-23
Visual Inspection
Visual inspection is a good maintenance technique. Occasionally, you will find loose wires or faulty
connections, making extensive voltage checks unnecessary.
Transistor Checks
Transistors can be checked by substitution. Transistors, however, have a characteristic known as
leakage current, which may affect the results obtained when the substitution method is used.
The leakage current may influence the current gain or amplification factor of the transistor.
Therefore, a particular transistor might operate properly in one circuit and not in another. This
characteristic is more critical in certain applications than in others. As the transistor ages, the amount of
leakage current tends to increase. One type of transistor checker used is the semiconductor test set. This
test set can be used either for in-circuit or out-of-circuit tests or for collector leakage current or current
gain. You should use extreme care when substituting transistors. More and more transistors have specific
current and breakdown voltage requirements that may affect how they operate within a given circuit.
 Q-12. As a transistor ages, what happens to the leakage current?
Voltage Checks
Voltage measurements provide a means of checking circuit conditions in a transistorized circuit just
as they do in checking conditions in a tube circuit. The voltages, however, are much lower than in a tube
circuit. The bias voltage between the base and emitter, for instance, is usually 0.05 to 0.20 volts. When
making checks, observe polarity.
Resistance Checks
Transistors have little tendency to burn or change value because of low voltage in their circuits. They
can, however, be permanently damaged by high-voltage conditions that occur when the collector voltage
is increased. They can also be permanently damaged when the ambient temperature increases and causes
excessive collector current flow. Transistors are easily damaged by high current; therefore, resistance
measurements must not be taken with an ohmmeter that provides a maximum current output in excess of
1 milliampere. If you are not sure that the range of ohmmeter you want to use is below the 1 milliampere
level, connect the ohmmeter to a milliammeter and check it. See figure 2-19 for a method of measuring
the current from an ohmmeter.

===== PDF-side 72 =====

2-24
Figure 2-19.—Measuring current passed by an ohmmeter.
Resistance measurements usually are not made in transistorized circuits, except when you are
checking for open windings in transformers and coils. When a resistance check is required, the transistors
are usually removed from the circuit. Resistance checks cannot test all the characteristics of transistors,
especially transistors designed for high frequencies or fast switching. The ohmmeter is capable of making
simple transistor tests, such as open and short tests.
Refer to NEETS, Module 7, Introduction to Solid-State Devices and Power Supplies, for a review of
transistor and semiconductor terms and theory.
SUMMARY
The important points of this chapter are summarized in the following paragraphs:
The BEL is a unit that expresses the logarithmic ratio between the input and output of any given
component, circuit, or system and can be expressed in terms of voltage, current, or power.
Any figure expressed in bels can be converted to DECIBELS by multiplying the figure by 10. The
decibel cannot be used to represent actual power, only a ratio of one power to another.
The abbreviation dBm is used to represent power levels above or below a 1 milliwatt reference level.
A BOLOMETER is a device that undergoes changes in resistance as changes in dissipated power
occur. The two types of bolometers most often used are the barretter and the thermistor.
FREQUENCY MEASUREMENTS can be divided into two broad categories: mechanical-rotation
frequency and electrical-output frequency measurements.

===== PDF-side 73 =====

2-25
MECHANICAL ROTATION frequency is measured using a device called a TACHOMETER.
Three basic tachometers are used for measuring mechanical rotation frequency—the CENTRIFUGAL
tachometer, the CHRONOMETRIC tachometer, and the STROBOSCOPIC tachometer.
ELECTRICAL-OUTPUT frequencies of ac generators can be measured by VIBRATING-REED
devices or TUNED CIRCUITS.
AUDIO FREQUENCIES can be measured by a process known as ZERO BEATING. This is done
by matching an unknown signal with a locally generated signal of the same frequency obtained from a
calibrated high-precision oscillator. As the two frequencies are brought closer to the same value, they
reach a point of zero beat. This is when the frequency generated in the oscillator is equal to the frequency
of the unknown signal being measured. Another term for zero beating is HETERODYNING.
WAVEMETERS are calibrated resonant circuits used to measure frequency. Any type of resonant
circuit can be used in wavemeter applications. The type used depends on the frequency range for which
the meter is intended.
For measuring frequencies in the microwave range, the CAVITY WAVEMETER is the type most
commonly used.

===== PDF-side 74 =====

2-26
The CATHODE-RAY OSCILLOSCOPE and the SPECTRUM ANALYZER are used to perform
WAVEFORM ANALYSIS.
A typical BACK-TO-FORWARD-RESISTANCE ratio for a diode is 10 to 1.

===== PDF-side 75 =====

2-27
ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS Q1. THROUGH Q12.
 A-1. Bel.
 A-2. dBm.
 A-3. 4 mW.
 A-4. Dummy load or dummy antenna.
 A-5. Barretter and thermistor.
 A-6. It increases.
 A-7. Beat frequency.
 A-8. Wavemeter.
 A-9. Oscilloscope and spectrum analyzer.
 A-10. Spectrum analyzer.
 A-11. 10-to-1 ratio.
 A-12. It tends to increase.

===== PDF-side 76 =====



===== PDF-side 77 =====

3-1
CHAPTER 3
BASIC METERS
LEARNING OBJECTIVES
Upon completing this chapter, you should be able to:
 1. Describe the basic theory of the galvanometer.
 2. Describe the basic theory of the D’ Arsonval meter movement.
 3. State the proper procedure for connecting an ammeter to a circuit.
 4. Define ammeter sensitivity.
 5. State the proper procedure for connecting a voltmeter to a circuit.
 6. Describe possible effects on a circuit caused by the connection of a voltmeter.
 7. Define voltmeter sensitivity.
 8. Describe the internal operation of an ohmmeter with the use of a block diagram.
 9. Describe the operating procedure for using a megohmmeter.
 10. Describe the use of the electrodynamometer-type meter as a voltmeter, ammeter, and wattmeter.
 11. Describe the factors that limit wattmeter capability.
 12. Describe an open circuit, a ground, a short, and the tests used to check for these conditions.
INTRODUCTION
When troubleshooting, testing, or repairing electronic equipment, you will use various meters and
other types of test equipment to check for proper circuit voltages, currents, resistances, and to determine if
the wiring is defective. You may be able to connect these test instruments to a circuit and take readings
without knowing just how the instruments operate. However, to be a competent technician, you need to be
able to do more than merely read a test instrument. You need a basic knowledge of how test instruments
operate. This chapter discusses the operating principles of some of the test instruments you will use in
equipment troubleshooting.
METERS
The best and most expensive measuring instrument is of no use to you unless you know what you are
measuring and what each reading indicates. Remember that the purpose of a meter is to measure
quantities existing within a circuit. For this reason, when the meter is connected to the circuit, it must not
change the condition of the circuit.

===== PDF-side 78 =====

3-2
METER POWER SOURCE
Meters are either SELF-EXCITED or EXTERNALLY EXCITED. Self-excited meters operate from
their own power sources. Externally excited meters get their power from the circuit to which they are
connected. Most common meters (voltmeters, ammeters, and ohmmeters) that you use in your work
operate on the electromagnetic principle. All measuring instruments must have some form of indicating
device, usually a meter, to be of any use to you. The most basic indicating device used in instruments that
measure current and voltage operates by using the interaction between the magnetic fields associated with
current flow in the circuit. Before continuing, you might want to review the properties of magnetism and
electromagnetism in NEETS, Module 1, Introduction to Matter, Energy, and Direct Current.
 Q-1. What meters operate from their own power sources?
BASIC METER MOVEMENT
A stationary, permanent-magnet, moving-coil meter is the basic meter movement used in most
measuring instruments used for servicing electrical equipment. When current flows through the coil, a
resulting magnetic field reacts with the magnetic field of the permanent magnet and causes the movable
coil to rotate. The greater the intensity of current flow through the coil, the stronger the magnetic field
produced; the stronger the magnetic field produced, the greater the rotation of the coil. The
GALVANOMETER is an example of one type of stationary, permanent-magnet, moving-coil measuring
instrument.
Galvanometer
The galvanometer is used to measure very low currents, such as those in bridge circuits. In modified
form, the galvanometer has the highest sensitivity of any of the various types of meters in use today. A
simplified diagram of a galvanometer is shown in figure 3-1. It is different from other instruments used
for the same purpose because its movable coil is suspended by means of metal ribbons instead of a shaft
and jewel-bearing arrangement often used in other instruments.
Figure 3-1.—Simplified galvanometer.

===== PDF-side 79 =====

3-3
The movable coil is wrapped around the aluminum frame of the galvanometer. The coil is suspended
between the poles of the magnet by means of thin, flat ribbons of phosphor bronze. These ribbons provide
a conduction path for the current between the circuit being tested and the movable coil. The ribbons allow
the coil to twist in response to the interaction of the applied current through the coil and the magnetic
field of the permanent magnet. They also provide the restoring force for the coil. Basically, the restoring
force is that force necessary to return the movable frame to its resting position after a reading. The
ribbons restrain or provide a counterforce to the magnetic force acting on the coil. When the driving force
of the coil current is removed, the restoring force provided by the ribbons returns the coil to its zero
position.
 Q-2. What physical component of a galvanometer provides the restoring force for the coil?
To determine the amount of current flow, we must have a means to indicate the amount of coil
rotation. Either of two methods may be used: (1) the POINTER arrangement or (2) the LIGHT AND
MIRROR arrangement.
 Q-3. In a galvanometer, what two methods are used to indicate the amount of coil rotation?
In the pointer arrangement, one end of the pointer is mechanically connected to the rotating coil; as
the coil moves, the pointer also moves. The other end of the pointer moves across a graduated scale and
indicates the amount of current flow. The overall simplicity of this arrangement is its main advantage.
However, a disadvantage of this arrangement is that it introduces a mechanical coil balancing problem,
especially if the pointer is long.
 Q-4. What is the primary disadvantage of the pointer arrangement for indicating coil rotation?
In the light and mirror arrangement, the use of a mirror and a beam of light simplifies the problem of
coil balance. When this arrangement is used to measure the turning of the coil, a small mirror is mounted
on the supporting ribbon, as shown in figure 3-1. An internal light source is directed to the mirror and
then reflected to the scale of the meter. As the movable coil turns, so does the mirror. This causes the light
reflection to move across the graduated scale of the meter. The movement of the reflection is proportional
to the movement of the coil; therefore, the intensity of the current being measured by the meter is
accurately indicated.
If the beam of light and mirror arrangement is used, the beam of light is swept to the right or left
across a translucent screen (scale). The translucent screen is divided uniformly with the zero reading
located at center scale. If the pointer arrangement is used, the pointer is moved in a horizontal plane to the
right or left across a scale that is divided uniformly with the zero reading at the center. The direction in
which the beam of light or the pointer moves depends on the direction (polarity) of current through the
coil.
D’Arsonval Meter Movement
Most dc instruments use meters based on some form of the D’ Arsonval meter movement. In
D’ Arsonval-type meters, the length of the conductor and the strength of the field between the poles of the
magnet are fixed. Therefore, any change in current causes a proportional change in the force acting on the
coil. Figure 3-2 is a simplified diagram showing the principle of the D’ Arsonval movement.

===== PDF-side 80 =====

3-4
Figure 3-2.—D'Arsonval meter movement.
In the figure, only one turn of wire is shown; however, in an actual meter movement, many turns of
fine wire would be used, each turn adding more effective length to the coil. The coil is wound on an
aluminum frame (bobbin) to which the pointer is attached. Oppositely wound hairsprings (only one is
shown in the figure) are also attached to the bobbin, one at either end. The circuit to the coil is completed
through the hairsprings. In addition to serving as conductors, the hairsprings serve as the restoring force
that returns the pointer to the zero position when no current flows.
 Q-5. What component of the D’Arsonval meter movement completes the circuit for current flow to the
coil?
COIL MOVEMENT.—As we discussed previously, the deflecting (moving) force on the coil is
proportional to the current flowing through the coil. This deflecting force tends to cause the coil to rotate
against the restraining force of the hairsprings. When the deflecting force and the restraining force are
equal, the coil and the pointer stop moving. As we have just stated, the deflecting force is proportional to
the current in the coil, the angle (amount) of rotation is proportional to the deflecting force; therefore, the
angle of rotation is proportional to the current through the coil. When current stops flowing through the
coil, the deflecting force stops, and the restoring force of the springs returns the pointer to the zero
position.
 Q-6. What component supplies restoring force to the coil of the D’Arsonval meter movement?
DIRECTION OF FORCE.—The current through the single turn of wire is in the direction
indicated in the figure (away from you on the right-hand side and toward you on the left-hand side). If we
apply the right-hand motor rule, the direction of force is upward on the left-hand side and downward on
the right-hand side; therefore, the direction of motion of the coil and pointer is clockwise. If the current
were reversed in the wire, the direction of motion of the coil and pointer would be reversed. For a review
of the right-hand rule for motors, refer to NEETS, Module 5, Introduction to Generators and Motors.
PRINCIPLE OF OPERATION.—A more detailed view of the basic D'Arsonval movement, as it is
used in ammeters and voltmeters, is shown in figure 3-3. The principle of operation is the same as that
discussed in the simplified version. The iron core is rigidly supported between the pole pieces; it serves to

===== PDF-side 81 =====

3-5
concentrate the flux in the narrow space between the iron core and the pole piece. Current flows into one
hairspring, through the coil, and out the other hairspring. The restoring forces of the spiral springs return
the pointer to the normal zero position when the current through the coil is interrupted. Conductors
connect the hairsprings with the outside terminals of the meter. If the instrument is not DAMPED to
absorb the energy of the moving element, the pointer will oscillate (vibrate) for a period of time before
coming to a stop in its final position. Damping is an energy-absorbing system that prevents this.
Figure 3-3.—Detailed view of the basic D'Arsonval meter movement.
DAMPING.—This is accomplished in many D'Arsonval movements by means of the motion of the
aluminum bobbin on which the coil is wound. As the bobbin rotates in the magnetic field, an
electromotive force is induced into it as it cuts through the lines of force. Induced currents flow in the
bobbin in a direction opposite to the motion; this causes the bobbin to go beyond its final position only
once before stopping. The overall sensitivity of the meter can be increased by the use of a lightweight
rotating assembly (bobbin, coil, and pointer) and by the use of jewel bearings, as shown in figure 3-3.

===== PDF-side 82 =====

3-6
POLE CONSTRUCTION.—Note that the pole pieces in figures 3-2 and 3-3 have curved faces.
You can see the advantage of this type of construction if you remember that lines of force enter and leave
a magnetic field in the air gap at right angles to the coil, regardless of the angular position of the coil.
Because of this type of construction, a more linear scale is possible than if the pole faces were flat.
 Q-7. What advantage is gained by using pole pieces with curved faces in the D’Arsonval meter
movement?
DC AMMETER
The movable coil of the D'Arsonval meter movement we have been discussing up to now uses small-
size wire in its windings. This small-size wire places limits on the amount of current that can be safely
passed through the coil. Therefore, the basic D'Arsonval movement discussed can be used to indicate or
measure only very small currents. Certain circuit changes must be made to the basic D'Arsonval meter
movement for it to be practical in everyday use. To measure large currents, you must use a SHUNT with
the meter.
Shunts
A shunt is a physically large, low-resistance conductor connected in parallel (shunt) with the meter
terminals. It is used to carry the majority of the load current. Such a shunt is designed with the correct
amount of resistance so that only a small portion of the total current flows through the meter coil. The
meter current is proportional to the total load current. If the shunt is of such a value that the meter is
calibrated in milliamperes, the instrument is called a MILLIAMMETER. If the shunt has such a value that
the meter must be calibrated in terms of amperes, it is called an AMMETER.
 Q-8. What structurally large, low-resistance conductor is connected in parallel with the meter
movement to prevent damage?
SHUNT RESISTANCE.—A single, standardized meter movement is normally used in all
ammeters, no matter what the range is for a particular meter. For example, meters with working ranges of
0 to 10 amperes, 0 to 5 amperes, or 0 to 1 ampere all use the same meter movement. The various ranges
are achieved through the use of different values of shunt resistance with the same meter movement. The
designer of the ammeter simply calculates the correct shunt resistance required to extend the range of the
meter movement to measure any desired value of current. This shunt is then connected across the meter
terminals. Shunts may be located inside the meter case (internal shunts) with the proper switching
arrangements for changing them. They may also be located outside the meter case (external shunts) with
the necessary leads to connect them to the meter.
EXTERNAL SHUNTS.—An external-shunt circuit is shown in figure 3-4, view A. Typical external
shunts are shown in view B. View C shows a meter movement mounted within the case. The case
provides protection against breakage, magnetic shielding in some cases, and portability.

===== PDF-side 83 =====

3-7
Figure 3-4.—Dc ammeter using the D'Arsonval movement with external shunts.
SHUNT CONSTRUCTION.—The shunt strips (view B of figure 3-4) are usually made of the alloy
Manganin. Manganin has a temperature coefficient of almost zero. The zero-temperature coefficient
property is desirable because of the heavy currents that often flow through shunts producing heat. A zero-
temperature coefficient material is not affected by this heat; therefore, it remains stable in temperature.
Most other materials increase their resistance as they are heated. If shunts were made of these materials,
they would carry less current. More and more current would flow through the meter movement, and the
chances of damage would increase. Using shunts constructed with zero-temperature coefficient materials
eliminates this problem.
 Q-9. What type of temperature coefficient material does not produce increased heat in response to
increased current flow?
The ends of the shunt strips are embedded in heavy copper blocks. The blocks are attached to the
meter coil leads and the line terminals. To ensure accurate readings, you should not interchangeably use
the meter leads for a particular ammeter with those for a meter of a different range. Slight changes in lead
length and size may vary the resistance of the meter circuit. If this happens, current will also change and
cause incorrect meter readings. External shunts are generally used where currents greater than 50 amperes
must be measured.
SHUNT SELECTION.—When using an external-shunt ammeter, you should select a suitable shunt
so that the scale deflection can be easily read. For example, if the scale has 150 divisions and the load
current you want to measure is known to be between 50 and 100 amperes, a 150-ampere shunt would be
the correct choice. Under these conditions, each division of the scale represents 1 ampere. In other words,

===== PDF-side 84 =====

3-8
a full-scale deflection of the pointer would rest on the 150th division mark, indicating that 150 amperes of
load current is flowing. At half-scale deflection, the pointer would rest on the 75th division mark,
indicating that 75 amperes of load current is flowing.
A shunt having exactly the same current rating as the expected normal load current should never be
selected. If you were to select such a shunt, higher than normal load currents could possibly drive the
pointer off scale and damage the meter movement. A good choice of shunt values will place the indicating
needle somewhere near the midscale indication when the load current you are reading is normal. For
example, assume that the meter scale is divided into 100 equal divisions and you want to measure a
current of 60 amperes. The shunt to use would be a 100-ampere shunt. This would make each division of
the scale equal to 1 ampere. The meter indication would fall on the 60th division showing that 60 amperes
of load current is flowing. Therefore, an allowance (40 amperes) remains for unexpected surge currents.
 Q-10. A good choice of shunt resistance will place the indicating pointer near what part of the meter
scale with a normal load?
INTERNAL SHUNTS FOR METERS IN THE 0- TO 50-AMPERE RANGE.—When
measuring current ranges below 50 amperes, you will most often use internal shunts (R
shunt). In this way,
you can easily change the range of the meter by means of a switching arrangement. A switch will select
the correct internal shunt with the necessary current rating and resistance. Before you can calculate the
required resistance of the shunt for each range, the total resistance of the meter movement must be
known. For example, suppose you desire to use a 100-microampere D'Arsonval meter with an internal
coil resistance of 100 ohms to measure line currents up to 1 ampere. The meter will deflect to its full-scale
position when the current through the deflection coil is 100 microamperes.
Since the coil resistance is 100 ohms, you can calculate the coil's voltage (E
coil) by using Ohm's law,
as follows:
When the pointer is deflected to full scale, 100 microamperes of current flows through the coil and
0.01 volt drops across it. Remember, 100 microamperes is the maximum safe current for this meter
movement. Exceeding this value will damage the meter. The shunt must carry any additional load current.
The meter coil has a 0.01 volt drop across it, and, because the shunt and coil are in parallel, the shunt
also has a voltage drop of 0.01 volt. The current that flows through the shunt is the difference between the
full-scale meter current and the line current being fed into the shunt. In this case, meter current is 100
microamperes. Full-scale deflection is desired only when the total current is 1 ampere. Therefore, the
shunt current must equal 1 ampere minus 100 microamperes, or 0.9999 ampere. Ohm's law is again used
to provide the approximate value of required shunt resistance (R
shunt), as follows:

===== PDF-side 85 =====

3-9
To increase the range of the 100-microampere meter to 1 ampere (full-scale deflection), place a 0.01-
ohm shunt in parallel with the meter movement.
You can convert the 100-microampere instrument to a 10-ampere meter by using a proper shunt. The
voltage drop for a full-scale deflection is still 0.01 volt across the coil and the shunt. The meter current is
still 100 microamperes. The shunt current must therefore be 9.9999 amperes under full-scale deflection.
Again, this is an approximate figure found by the application of Ohm’ s law.
You can also convert the same instrument to a 50-ampere meter by using the proper shunt resistance,
as follows:
INTERNAL SHUNTS FOR METERS IN THE MILLIAMPERE RANGE.—The above method
of computing the shunt resistance is satisfactory in most cases; however, it can only be used when the line
current is in the ampere range and the meter current is relatively small compared to the load current. In
such cases, you can use an approximate value of resistance for the shunt, as was done above. However,
when the line current is in the milliampere range and the coil current becomes an appreciable percentage
of the line current, a more accurate calculation must be made. For example, suppose you desire to use a
meter movement that has a full-scale deflection of 1 milliampere and a coil resistance of 50 ohms to
measure currents up to 10 milliamperes. Using Ohm's law, you can figure the voltage (E
coil) across the
meter coil (and the shunt) at full-scale deflection, as follows:
The current that flows through the shunt (Ishunt) is the difference between the line current and the
meter current, as figured below:
The shunt resistance (Rshunt) may then be figured, as follows:
Notice that, in this case, the exact value of shunt resistance has been used rather than an
approximation.

===== PDF-side 86 =====

3-10
The formula for determining the resistance of the shunt is given by Rs = Im /Is times Rm, where Rs is
the shunt resistance in ohms; Im is the meter current at full-scale deflection; Is is the shunt current at full-
scale deflection; and Rm  is the resistance of the meter coil. If the values given in the previous example are
used in this equation, it will yield 5.55 ohms, the value previously calculated.
SWITCHING SHUNT VALUES.—Various values of shunt resistance can be used, by means of a
suitable switching arrangement, to increase the number of current ranges that can be covered by the
meter. Two switching arrangements are shown in figure 3-5. View A is the simpler of the two
arrangements when a number of shunts are used to calculate the values of the shunt resistors. However, it
has two disadvantages:
Figure 3-5.—Ways of connecting internal meter shunts.
1. When the switch is moved from one shunt resistor to another, the shunt is momentarily removed
from the meter. The line current then flows through the meter coil. Even a momentary surge of
current could easily damage the coil.
2. The contact resistance (resistance between the blades of the switch when they are in contact) is in
series with the shunt, but not with the meter coil. In shunts that must pass high currents, this
contact resistance becomes an appreciable part of the total shunt resistance. Because the contact
resistance is of a variable nature, the ammeter indication may not be accurate.
The generally preferred method of range switching is shown in (figure 3-5, view B). Although only
two ranges are shown, as many ranges as needed can be used. In this type of circuit, the contact resistance
of the range-selector switch is external to the shunt and meter in each range position. The contact
resistance in this case has no effect on the accuracy of the current measurement.
Ammeter Connections
When you are using ammeters, a primary rule of safety is that such current-measuring instruments
must always be connected in series with a circuit, never in parallel with it. When an ammeter is
connected across a constant-potential source of appreciable voltage, the low internal resistance of the
meter bypasses the circuit resistance. This results in the application of the source voltage (or a good

===== PDF-side 87 =====

3-11
portion of it) directly to the meter terminals. The resulting excessive current burns up the meter coil and
renders the meter useless until repaired.
 Q-11. In what manner are current-measuring instruments connected to a circuit?
If you do not know the approximate value of current in the circuit, you should take a reading at the
highest range of the ammeter; then you should switch progressively to lower ranges until a suitable
reading is obtained. Most ammeter scales indicate the current being measured in increasing values from
left to right. If you connect the meter without observing proper polarity, the pointer may be deflected
backwards (from right to left). This action often damages the meter movement. You should ensure that
the ammeter is always connected so that the current will flow into the negative terminal and out the
positive terminal. Figure 3-6 shows various circuit arrangements and the proper ammeter connection
methods to measure current in various portions of the circuit.
Figure 3-6.—Proper ammeter connection.
 Q-12. An ammeter should always be connected so that current will flow into what terminal and out of
what terminal?
Ammeter Sensitivity
Ammeter sensitivity is determined by the amount of current required by the meter coil to produce
full-scale deflection of the pointer. The smaller the amount of current required to produce this deflection,
the greater the sensitivity of the meter. A meter movement that requires only 100 microamperes for full-
scale deflection has a greater sensitivity than a meter movement that requires 1 milliampere for the same
deflection.
 Q-13. (True or False) The larger the current required to produce full-scale deflection of the meter coil,
the better the sensitivity of the meter.
Good sensitivity is especially important in ammeters to be used in circuits in which small currents
flow. As the meter is connected in series with the load, the current flows through the meter. If the internal
resistance of the meter is a large portion of the load resistance, an effect known as METER-LOADING
will occur. Meter-loading is the condition that exists when the insertion of a meter into a circuit changes
the operation of that circuit. This condition is not desirable. The purpose of inserting a meter into a circuit
is to allow the measurement of circuit current in the normal operating condition. If the meter changes the

===== PDF-side 88 =====

3-12
circuit operation and changes the amount of current flow, the reading you obtain will be in error. An
example of this is shown in figure 3-7.
Figure 3-7.—Ammeter loading effect.
 Q-14. What condition exists when the insertion of a meter into a circuit changes the operation of the
circuit?
In view A of figure 3-7, the circuit to be tested has an applied voltage of 100 millivolts and a
resistance of 100 ohms. The current normally flowing in this circuit is 1 milliampere. In view B, an
ammeter that requires 1 milliampere for full-scale deflection and that has an internal resistance of 100
ohms has been inserted. Since 1 milliampere of current flow is shown in view A, you might naturally
assume that with the meter inserted into the circuit, a full-scale deflection will occur. You might also
assume that the 1 milliampere of circuit current will be measured. However, neither of these assumptions
is correct. With the ammeter inserted into the circuit, as shown in view B, the total resistance of the circuit
is 200 ohms. With an applied voltage of 100 millivolts, applying Ohm’ s law shows the actual current
(I
circuit) to be 0.5 milliampere.
Since the meter reads 0.5 milliampere instead of the normal value of current, the meter reveals that a
definite loading effect has taken place. In cases such as this, the use of ammeters, which have a lower
internal resistance and a better current sensitivity, is desirable.
DC VOLTMETER
Up to this point, we have been discussing the 100-microampere D’ Arsonval movement and its use as
an ammeter. However, it can also be used to measure voltage if a MULTIPLIER (high resistance) is
placed in series with the moving coil of the meter. For low-voltage instruments, this resistance is
physically mounted inside the meter case with the D’ Arsonval movement. The series resistance is
constructed of a wire-wound resistance that has a low temperature coefficient wound on either a spool or

===== PDF-side 89 =====

3-13
card frame. For high-voltage ranges, the series resistance can be connected externally. A simplified
diagram of a voltmeter is shown in figure 3-8.
Figure 3-8.—Internal construction and circuit of a simplified voltmeter.
 Q-15. What modification is made to the D’Arsonval meter movement to enable the meter to measure
voltage?
Keep in mind that the D’ Arsonval meter movement uses current flow to produce a magnetic field that
is proportional to the current. The meter movement is, therefore, an indicator of current flow rather than
voltage. The addition of the series resistance is what allows the meter to be calibrated in terms of voltage;
that is, the meter movement of a voltmeter operates because of the current flow through the meter, but the
scale is marked in volts. For example, the meter movement shown in figure 3-9 has an internal resistance
of 100 ohms, requires 100 microamperes for full-scale deflection, and has a voltage drop of 10 millivolts
when full-scale deflection is reached. If you were to place this meter directly across a 10-volt source, an
excessive current (in milliamperes) would flow. The meter would be destroyed because of the excessive
current flowing through the meter movement. This can be seen in the following Ohm’ s law application:
Figure 3-9.—Use of multiplier resistors with D'Arsonval meter movement.
Using this equation, you can see that a current through the meter of 100 milliamperes is excessive
and will cause damage.

===== PDF-side 90 =====

3-14
Since the normal voltage drop for the meter is 10 millivolts at full-scale deflection, some means must
be supplied to drop the extra 9.99 volts without applying it directly to the meter. This is done by the
addition of a multiplier resistor, as shown in figure 3-9.
Extending Voltmeter Ranges
The value of series resistance is determined by the current required for full-scale deflection and by
the range of the voltages to be measured. Since the current through the meter circuit is directly
proportional to the applied voltage, the meter scale can be calibrated directly in volts for a fixed value of
series resistance. For example, let’ s assume that the basic meter is to be made into a voltmeter with a full-
scale deflection of 1 volt. The coil resistance of the basic meter is 100 ohms, and 100 microamperes of
current causes full-scale deflection. The resistance (R
 meter) required to limit the total current in the circuit
to 100 microamperes can be found as follows:
Because the meter coil already measures 100 ohms, the series resistance required is equal to 10
kilohms minus 100 ohms, or 9.9 kilohms.
 Q-16. What factors determine the value of the multiplier resistor?
Multirange voltmeters use one meter movement. The required resistances are connected in series
with the meter by a switching arrangement. A schematic diagram of a multirange voltmeter with three
ranges is shown in figure 3-10. The total meter resistance (R meter) for each of the three ranges, beginning
with the 1-volt range, is figured by the application of Ohm’ s law, as follows:

===== PDF-side 91 =====

3-15
Figure 3-10.—Multirange voltmeter.
The actual value of the multiplying series resistor (Rseries) for each of these circuits is 100 ohms less
than the total resistance. This allows for the resistance of the meter coil (Rcoil).
Voltmeter Circuit Connections
When voltmeters are used, a primary rule of safety is that such voltage-measuring instruments must
always be connected  in parallel with (across) a circuit. If you are unsure of the level of the voltage to be
measured, take a reading at the highest range of the voltmeter and progressively (step by step) lower the
range until a suitable reading is obtained. In many cases, the voltmeter you will be using will not be a

===== PDF-side 92 =====

3-16
center-zero- (0 reading is in the center) indicating instrument. Observing the correct polarity is important
when connecting the instrument to the circuit. Voltmeter polarity is the same as for the dc ammeter; that
is, current flows from negative to positive.
 Q-17. In what manner are voltage-measuring instruments connected to the circuit to be measured?
Influence of a Voltmeter in a Circuit
The purpose of a voltmeter is to indicate the potential difference between two points in a circuit.
When a voltmeter is connected across a circuit, it shunts the circuit. If the voltmeter has a low resistance,
it will draw a substantial amount of current. This action lowers the effective resistance of the circuit and
changes the voltage reading. When you are making voltage measurements in high-resistance circuits, use
a HIGH-RESISTANCE VOLTMETER to prevent the shunting action of the voltmeter. The effect is less
noticeable in low-resistance circuits because the shunting effect is less. The problem of voltmeter
shunting (sometimes called circuit loading) is illustrated in figure 3-11.
Figure 3-11.—Shunting action caused by a voltmeter.
 Q-18. When making voltage measurements in a high-resistance circuit, you should always use a
voltmeter with what relative value of resistance?
In view A of figure 3-11, a source of 150 volts is applied to a series circuit consisting of two 10-
kilohm resistors. View A shows the voltage drop across each resistor to be 75 volts. In the 150-volt range,
the voltmeter to be used has a total internal resistance of 10 kilohms. View B shows the voltmeter
connected across the circuit. The parallel combination of R2 and the meter now present a total resistance
of 5 kilohms. Because of the addition of the voltmeter, the voltage drops change to 100 volts across R1
and 50 volts across R2. Notice that this is not the normal voltage drop across R2. Actual circuit conditions
have been altered because of the voltmeter.
Voltmeter Sensitivity
The sensitivity of a voltmeter is given in ohms per volt. It is determined by dividing the sum of the
resistance of the meter (R
meter), plus the series resistance (Rseries), by the full-scale reading in volts. In
equation form, sensitivity is expressed as follows:
This is the same as saying the sensitivity is equal to the reciprocal of the full-scale deflection current.
In equation form, this is expressed as follows:

===== PDF-side 93 =====

3-17
Therefore, the sensitivity of a 100-microampere movement is the reciprocal of 0.0001 ampere, or
10,000 ohms per volt.
 Q-19. What term is used to express the sensitivity of a voltmeter?
METERS USED FOR MEASURING RESISTANCE
The two instruments you will use most often to check continuity, or to measure the resistance of a
circuit or circuit component, are the OHMMETER and the MEGGER (MEGOHMMETER). The
ohmmeter is widely used to measure resistance and to check the continuity of electrical circuits and
devices. Its range usually extends to only a few megohms. The megger is widely used for measuring
insulation resistance, such as that between a wire and the outer surface of its insulation, and the insulation
resistance of cables and insulators. The range of a megger can be extended to more than 1,000 megohms.
 Q-20. What instrument is used for measuring the insulation resistance of cables?
The Ohmmeter
A simple ohmmeter circuit is shown in figure 3-12. The ohmmeter consists of the dc milliammeter,
discussed earlier in this chapter, and the added features shown below:

===== PDF-side 94 =====

3-18
Figure 3-12.—Simple ohmmeter circuit.
• A source of dc potential; and
• One or more resistors (one of which is variable).
 Q-21. What added features enable a dc milliammeter to function as an ohmmeter?
The deflection of the pointer of an ohmmeter is controlled by the amount of battery current passing
through the moving coil. Before you can measure the resistance of an unknown resistor or electrical
circuit, you must calibrate the ohmmeter to be used. If the value of resistance to be measured can be
estimated within reasonable limits, select a range on the ohmmeter that will give approximately half-scale
deflection when the resistance is inserted between the probes. If you cannot estimate the resistance to be
measured, then set the range switch on the highest scale. Whatever range you select, the meter must be
calibrated to read zero before the unknown resistance is measured.
To calibrate the meter, you first short the test leads together, as shown in figure 3-12. With the test
leads shorted, a complete series circuit exists. The complete series circuit consists of the 3-volt source, the
resistance of the meter coil (R
 meter), the resistance of the zero-adjust rheostat, and the series multiplying
resistor (Rseries). The shorted test leads cause current to flow and the meter pointer to deflect.
Notice that the zero point on the ohmmeter scale (as opposed to the zero points for voltage and
current) is located at the extreme right side of the scale. With the test leads shorted, the zero-adjust
potentiometer is set so that the pointer rests on the zero mark. Therefore, a full-scale deflection indicates
zero resistance between the leads.
 Q-22. A full-scale deflection on an ohmmeter scale indicates what resistance between the leads?
If you change the range on the meter, you must "zero" (calibrate) the meter again to obtain an
accurate reading. When you separate the test leads, the pointer of the meter will return to the left side of
the scale. This action, as explained earlier, is caused by the restoring force of the spring tension acting on
the movable coil assembly. The reading at the left side of the scale indicates an infinite resistance.

===== PDF-side 95 =====

3-19
After you have adjusted the ohmmeter for zero reading, it is ready to be connected to a circuit to
measure resistance. A typical circuit and ohmmeter arrangement is shown in figure 3-13. You must
ensure that the power switch of the circuit to be measured is in the de-energized (OFF) position. This
prevents the source voltage of the circuit from being applied to the meter, a condition that could cause
severe damage to the meter movement.
Figure 3-13.—Measuring circuit resistance with an ohmmeter.
Remember that the ohmmeter is an open circuit when the test leads are separated. To take a
resistance reading with a meter, you must provide a path for current flow produced by the meter’ s battery.
In view A of figure 3-13, the meter is connected at points A and B to produce this path. Connecting these
test leads places resistors R1 and R2 in series with the resistance of the meter coil, the zero-adjust
potentiometer, and the series multiplying resistor. Since you previously calibrated the meter, the amount
of coil movement now depends only on the resistances of R1 and R2.
The addition of R1 and R2 into the meter circuit raises the total series resistance and decreases the
current. This decreases the amount of pointer deflection. The pointer comes to rest at a scale reading that
indicates the combined resistance of R1 and R2. If you were to replace either R1 or R2, or both, with a
resistor having a larger ohmic value, the current flow in the moving coil of the meter would be decreased
even more. This would further decrease the pointer deflection, and the scale indication would read a still
higher circuit resistance. View B is a simplified version of the circuitry in view A.
From our ohmmeter discussion, two facts should be apparent: (1) Movement of the moving coil is
proportional to the amount of current flow, and (2) the scale reading of the ohmmeter is inversely
proportional to current flow in the moving coil.
The amount of circuit resistance to be measured may vary over a wide range. In some cases, it may
only be a few ohms; in other cases, it may be as great as 1 megohm. Scale multiplication features are built
into most ohmmeters so that they will indicate any ohmic value being measured and offer the least
amount of error. Most ohmmeters are equipped with a selector switch for selecting the multiplication
scale desired. For example, view A of figure 3-14 shows a typical meter that has a six-position switch.
The positions are marked on the meter in multiples of 10, from R · 1 through R · 100K.

===== PDF-side 96 =====

3-20
Figure 3-14.—Ohmmeter with multiplication switch.
The range used to measure any particular unknown resistance (Rx in view A of figure 3-14) depends
on the approximate ohmic value of the unknown resistance. For instance, the ohmmeter scale of the figure
is calibrated in divisions from 0 to infinity. Note that the divisions are easier to read on the right-hand
portion of the scale than on the left. For this reason, if R
x is greater than 1,000 ohms and if you are using
the R · 1 range, you will be unable to accurately read the indicated resistance. This happens because the
combined series resistance of resistors Rx is too large for range R · 1 to allow enough battery current to
flow to deflect the pointer away from infinity. You need to turn the range switch to the R · 10 position to
obtain the 1,000-ohm reading.
Let’ s assume that you have changed the range switch to the R · 10 position and the pointer now
deflects to a reading of 375 ohms, as shown in view B of figure 3-14. This would indicate to you that
unknown resistance R
x has 3,750 (375 times 10) ohms of resistance. The change of range caused the
deflection because resistor R · 10 has only 1/10 the resistance of resistor R · 1. Therefore, selecting the
smaller series resistance allowed a battery current of sufficient value to cause a readable pointer
deflection. If the R · 100 range were used to measure the same 3,750 ohm resistor, the pointer would
deflect still further to the 37.5-ohm position, as shown in view C. This increased deflection would occur
because resistor R · 100 has only 1/10 the resistance of resistor R · 10.
 Q-23. The R · 100 resistance selection on an ohmmeter has what amount of resistance compared to the
R · 10 selection?
The circuit arrangement in view A of figure 3-14 allows the same amount of current to flow through
the moving meter coil. The same amount is allowed to flow whether the meter measures 10,000 ohms on
the R · 1 scale, 100,000 ohms on the R · 10 scale, or 1,000,000 ohms on the R · 100 scale.

===== PDF-side 97 =====

3-21
The same amount of current must always be used to deflect the pointer to a certain position on the
scale (midscale position, for example), regardless of the multiplication factor being used. Since the
multiplier resistors are of different values, you must always "zero" the meter for each multiplication scale
selected. When selecting a range on the ohmmeter, select the one that will result in the pointer coming to
rest as close to the midpoint of the scale as possible. This will enable you to read the resistance more
accurately because scale readings are more easily interpreted at or near midpoint.
The Megohmmeter
An ordinary ohmmeter cannot be used for measuring multimillion ohm values of resistances, such as
those in conductor insulation. To test for such insulation breakdown, you need to use a much higher
potential than that supplied by the battery of an ohmmeter. This potential is placed between the conductor
and the outside of the insulation. A megger (megohmmeter) is used for these tests. The megger, shown in
figure 3-15, is a portable instrument consisting of two main elements: (1) a hand-driven dc generator,
which supplies the necessary voltage for making the measurement, and (2) the instrument portion, which
indicates the value of the resistance you are measuring. The instrument portion is of the opposed-coil
type, as shown in view A. Coils a and b are mounted on movable member c. A fixed angular relationship
exists between coils, and they are free to turn as a unit in a magnetic field. Coil b tends to move the
pointer counterclockwise, and coil a tends to move it clockwise.
Figure 3-15.—Megger internal circuit and external view.
Coil a is connected in series with R3 and unknown resistance Rx. The combination of coil a, R3, and
Rx forms a direct series path between the + and - brushes of the dc generator. Coil b is connected in series
with R2, and this combination is also connected across the generator. Notice that the movable member
(pointer) of the instrument portion of the megger has no restoring springs. Therefore, when the generator
is not being operated, the pointer will float freely and may come to rest at any position on the scale.

===== PDF-side 98 =====

3-22
The guard ring, shown in view A of figure 3-15, shunts any leakage currents to the negative side of
the generator. This prevents such current from flowing through coil a and affecting the meter reading.
 Q-24. What is the purpose of the guard ring in a megohmmeter?
If the test leads are open, no current will flow in coil a. However, current will flow internally through
coil b and deflect the pointer to infinity. This reading indicates a resistance too large to measure. When a
resistance, such as Rx, is connected between the test leads, current also flows in coil a; the pointer tends to
move clockwise. At the same time, coil b still tends to move the pointer counterclockwise. Therefore, the
moving element, composed of both coils and the pointer, comes to rest at a position in which the two
forces are balanced. This position depends upon the value of R
x, which controls the amount of the current
in coil a. Because changes in voltage affect both coils in the same proportion, the position of the moving
element is independent of the voltage. If you short the test leads together, the pointer will come to rest at
zero because the current in coil a is relatively large. Since R3 limits the current, the instrument will not be
damaged under these circumstances. The external appearance of one type of megger is shown in view B
of figure 3-15.
Most meggers you will use are rated at 500 volts; however, there are other types. Meggers are
usually equipped with friction clutches, which are designed to slip if the generator is cranked faster than
its rated speed. This prevents the generator speed and output voltage from exceeding rated values. A
1,000-volt generator is available for extended ranges. When an extremely high resistance, such as 10,000
megohms or more, is to be measured, a high voltage is needed to cause enough current flow to actuate the
meter movement.
CAUTION
When using a megger, you can easily be injured or damage equipment if you do
not observe the following MINIMUM safety precautions:
• Use meggers on high-resistance measurements only (such as insulation measurements or to check
two separate conductors on a cable).
• Never touch the test leads while the handle is being cranked.
• De-energize and discharge the circuit completely before connecting a megger.
• Whenever possible, disconnect the component being checked from other circuitry before using a
megger
 Q-25. Most meggers you will use are rated at what voltage?
 Q-26. The development of excessive test voltages is avoided by the use of meggers equipped with what
device?
ELECTRODYNAMOMETER-TYPE METERS
The electrodynamometer-type meter differs from the galvanometer types we have just studied in that
two fixed coils are used to produce the magnetic field instead of a permanent magnet. Two movable coils
are also used in the electrodynamometer meter. The electrodynamometer meter is most commonly found
in various types of power meters.

===== PDF-side 99 =====

3-23
 Q-27. What components in an electrodynamometer-type meter movement produce the magnetic field?
As shown in figure 3-16, the fixed coils are connected in series and positioned coaxially (in line)
with a space between them. The two movable coils are also positioned coaxially and are connected in
series. The two pairs of coils (fixed pair and movable pair) are also connected in series with each other.
The movable coil is pivot-mounted between the fixed coils. The main shaft on which the movable coils
are mounted is restrained by spiral springs that restore the pointer to zero when no current is flowing
through the coil. These springs also act as conductors for delivering current to the movable coils. Since
these conducting springs are very small, the meter cannot carry a high value of current.
Figure 3-16.—Internal construction of an electrodynamometer.
 Q-28. What is the limiting factor as to the amount of current an electrodynamometer meter movement
can handle?
METER ACCURACY
The meter is mechanically damped by means of aluminum vanes that move in enclosed air
chambers. Although very accurate, electrodynamometer-type meters do not have the sensitivity of the
D’ Arsonval-type meter movement. For this reason, you will not find them used outside of the laboratory
environment to a large extent.
METER MOVEMENT
The primary advantage of the electrodynamometer-type meter movement is that it can be used to
measure alternating as well as direct current. If you apply alternating current to the standard
galvanometer-type meter, it will not produce a usable reading. Instead, the meter will vibrate at or near
the zero reading. On one-half cycle of the ac, the meter is deflected to the left and on the other half cycle

===== PDF-side 100 =====

3-24
to the right. Since the frequencies you will be measuring are 60 hertz or greater, the meter is incapable of
mechanically responding at this speed. The result is simply a vibration near the zero point; in addition, no
useful reading of voltage or current is obtained. This problem does not exist with the
electrodynamometer-type movement. Current flow through the stationary (fixed) coils sets up a magnetic
field. Current flow through the moving coils sets up an opposing magnetic field. With two magnetic fields
opposing, the pointer deflects to the right. If the current reverses direction, the magnetic fields of both sets
of coils will be reversed. With both fields reversed, the coils still oppose each other, and the pointer still
deflects to the right. Therefore, no rectifying devices are required to enable the electrodynamometer meter
movement to read both ac and dc. Rectifying devices are required for the D’ Arsonval-type meter
movement to enable it to be used for measuring ac voltages and currents.
 Q-29. What is the primary advantage of the electrodynamometer-type meter over the D’Arsonval-type
meter?
VOLTMETER
When an electrodynamometer is used as a voltmeter, no problems in construction are encountered
because the current required is not more than 0.1 ampere. This amount of current can be handled easily by
the spiral springs. When the electrodynamometer is used as a voltmeter, its internal connections and
construction are as shown in view A of figure 3-17. Fixed coils a and b are wound of fine wire since the
current flow through them will not exceed 0.1 ampere. They are connected directly in series with movable
coil c and the series current-limiting resistor.
Figure 3-17.—Circuit arrangement of electrodynamometer for use as a voltmeter and an ammeter.

===== PDF-side 101 =====

3-25
AMMETER
When the electrodynamometer is used as an ammeter, a special type of construction must be used.
This is because the large currents that flow through the meter cannot be carried through the moving coils.
In the ammeter in view B of figure 3-17, stationary coils a and b are wound of heavier wire to carry up to
5.0 amperes. An inductive shunt (XL) is wired in parallel with the moving coils and permits only a small
part of the total current to flow through the moving coil. The current flowing through the moving coil is
directly proportional to the total current flowing through the instrument. The shunt has the same ratio of
reactance to resistance as the moving coil does. Therefore, the instrument will be reasonably correct at
frequencies at which it is used if ac currents are to be measured.
WATTMETER
Electric power is measured by means of a wattmeter. This instrument is of the electrodynamometer
type. As shown in figure 3-18, it consists of a pair of fixed coils, known as current coils, and a moving
coil, called the voltage (potential) coil. The fixed current coils are wound with a few turns of a relatively
large conductor. The voltage coil is wound with many turns of fine wire. It is mounted on a shaft that is
supported in jeweled bearings so that it can turn inside the stationary coils. The movable coil carries a
needle (pointer) that moves over a suitably graduated scale. Coil springs hold the needle at the zero
position in the absence of a signal.
Figure 3-18.—Simplified electrodynamometer wattmeter circuit.
Wattmeter Connection
The current coil of the wattmeter is connected in series with the circuit (load), and the voltage coil is
connected across the line. When line current flows through the current coil of a wattmeter, a field is set up
around the coil. The strength of this field is in phase with and proportional to the line current. The voltage
coil of the wattmeter generally has a high-resistance resistor connected in series with it. The purpose for
this connection is to make the voltage-coil circuit of the meter as purely resistive as possible. As a result,
current in the voltage circuit is practically in phase with line voltage. Therefore, when voltage is

===== PDF-side 102 =====

3-26
impressed on the voltage circuit, current is proportional to and in phase with the line voltage. Figure 3-19
shows the proper way to connect a wattmeter into a circuit.
Figure 3-19.—Wattmeter connection.
Wattmeter Errors
Electrodynamic wattmeters are subject to errors arising from such factors as temperature and
frequency. For example, heat through the coils eventually causes the small springs attached to the pointer
to lengthen and lose tension, which produces deflection errors. Large currents through the wattmeter also
produce a noticeable deflection error. These errors are caused by the heat (I
2R) loss through coils from the
application of high currents. Because of this, the maximum current range of electrodynamic wattmeters is
normally restricted to approximately 20 amperes. The voltage range of wattmeters is usually limited to
several hundred volts because of heat dissipation within the voltage circuit. However, the voltage range
can be extended by the use of voltage multipliers.
Good-quality, portable wattmeters usually have an accuracy of 0.2 to 0.25 percent. You must
remember, though, that electrodynamic wattmeter errors increase with frequency. For the higher
frequency and power ranges, special types of wattmeters are made specifically for those ranges. We will
discuss two such wattmeters in chapter 5 of this module.
Wattmeter Overloads
The wattmeter consists of two circuits, either of which will be damaged if too much current passes
through them. You should be especially aware of this fact because the reading on the instrument will not
tell you whether or not the coils are being overheated. If an ammeter or voltmeter is overloaded, the
pointer will indicate beyond the upper limit of its scale. In the wattmeter, both the current and potential
circuit may carry such an overload that their insulations burn; yet the pointer may be only part of the way
up the scale. This is because the position of the pointer depends upon the power factor of the circuit as
well as upon the voltage and current. Therefore, a low power-factor circuit will provide a very low
reading on the wattmeter. The reading will be low, even when the current and voltage circuits are loaded
to the maximum safe limit. The safe rating for each wattmeter is always distinctly rated, not in watts, but
in volts and amperes.

===== PDF-side 103 =====

3-27
TECHNIQUES FOR METER USE
We have considered the more common meters; now let’ s consider some of the techniques employed
in their use. The techniques suggested here are not all-inclusive. You will find, as you develop your
technical skills, other variations and techniques in use. Consider the techniques for measuring current in a
circuit. You can accomplish this by placing an ammeter in series with the circuit or by measuring the
voltage across a resistor of known value and using Ohm’ s law to figure current. This last technique has the
advantage of eliminating the necessity of opening the circuit to connect the ammeter.
CONTINUITY TESTS
Open circuits are those in which the flow of current is interrupted by a broken wire, defective switch,
or any means by which the current cannot flow. The test used to detect open circuits (or to see if the
circuit is complete or continuous) is continuity testing.
An ohmmeter (which contains its own batteries) is excellent for use in a continuity test. Normally,
continuity tests are performed in circuits where the resistance is very low, such as the resistance of a
copper conductor. An open is indicated in these circuits by a very high or infinite resistance between two
continuously connected points.
Figure 3-20 shows a continuity test of a cable that connects two electronic units. Notice that both
plugs are disconnected and the ohmmeter is in series with conductor D under test. The power should be
off. When checking conductors A, B, and C (connection of ohmmeter to conductors not shown), the
current from the ohmmeter flows through plug 2 (female) through conductor A, B, or C to plug 1
(female). From plug 1, current passes through the jumper to the chassis, which is "grounded" to the ship’ s
structure. The metal structure serves as the return path to the chassis of unit 2 and completes the circuit
through the series-connected ohmmeter. The ohmmeter indicates a low resistance because no break exists
in conductors A, B, or C. However, checking conductor D reveals an open. The ohmmeter is shown
indicating maximum resistance because current cannot flow in an open circuit. With an open circuit, the
ohmmeter needle is all the way to the left since it is a series-type ohmmeter (reads right to left).
Figure 3-20.—Continuity test.

===== PDF-side 104 =====

3-28
Where conditions are such that the ship’ s structure cannot be used as the return path, one of the other
conductors (known to be good) may be used. For example, to check D, you can connect a jumper from
pin D to pin A of plug 1 (female) and the ohmmeter leads to pins D and A of plug 2 (female). This
technique will also reveal the open in the circuit.
TESTING FOR GROUNDS
Grounded circuits are caused by some conducting part of the circuit making contact either directly or
indirectly with the metallic structure of the ship. Grounds can have many causes. The two most common
are the fraying of insulation from a wire and moisture-soaked insulation. The fraying of insulation from a
wire allows bare wire to come into contact with the metal ground. Moisture-soaked insulation causes
reduced insulation resistance (also classified as a ground).
Grounds are usually indicated by blown fuses or tripped circuit breakers. Blown fuses or tripped
circuit breakers, however, can also result from a short circuit other than a ground. A high-resistance
ground can also occur when current is increased significantly but not enough to rupture the fuse or trip the
circuit breaker.
CAUTION
Before testing any circuit, ensure the circuit under test has been de-energized
and checked with a safety shorting probe.
In testing for grounds, you may use a megger or an ohmmeter. Measuring the resistance to ground
from points in a circuit determines if the point is grounded. Referring again to figure 3-20, you can see
one possible means of testing a cable for grounds. If the jumper is removed from pin D of plug 1 (female),
a test for ground can be made for each conductor in the cable. You can do this by connecting one meter
lead to ground and the other to each of the pins of either of the plugs. A low resistance indicates that some
part of that conductor or one of the plug assemblies is grounded. Both plugs must be removed from their
units; if only one plug is removed, a false indication is possible because a conductor may be grounded
through the unit.
TESTING FOR SHORTS
A short circuit, other than a grounded one, is one where two conductors touch each other directly or
through another conducting element. Two conductors with frayed insulation may touch and cause a short.
Too much solder on the pin of a connector may short to the adjacent pin. In a short circuit, enough current
may or may not flow to blow a fuse or open a circuit breaker. A short may occur between two cables
carrying signals but might not be indicated by a blown fuse.
Shorts occur in many components, such as transformers, motor windings, and capacitors. The major
test method used to detect shorts in such components is to measure resistance. The indicated resistance is
then compared with the resistance given on schematics or in the equipment technical manuals to
determine whether the measured value is within specifications.
An ohmmeter is the device used to check for shorts. You can use the ohmmeter to detect a short
between two conductors by measuring the resistance between them (be sure electrical power has been
disconnected). A low resistance reading indicates a short. You can test the circuit in figure 3-20 for a
short by first removing the jumper and disconnecting both plugs; you then measure the resistance between
the two suspended conductors.

===== PDF-side 105 =====

3-29
WARNING
The following section discusses voltage measurements on live circuits. BE
SURE YOU ALWAYS FOLLOW PRESCRIBED SAFETY RULES WHEN
MEASURING VOLTAGES.
VOLTAGE TESTS
Voltage tests must be made with the power applied; therefore, the prescribed safety precautions must
be followed to prevent injury to personnel and damage to the equipment. You will find in your
maintenance work that the voltage test is of utmost importance. It is used not only in isolating casualties
to major components but also in the maintenance of subassemblies, units, and circuits. Before checking a
circuit voltage, you should check the voltage of the power source to be sure that the normal voltage is
being applied to the circuit.
The voltmeter is used for voltage tests. In using the voltmeter, make certain that the meter used is
designed for the type of current (ac or dc) to be tested and has a scale with a suitable range. Since
defective parts in a circuit can cause higher than normal voltages to be present at the point of test, the
highest voltmeter range available should be used first. Once you have obtained a reading, determine if a
lower scale can be used that will cause no damage to the meter movement. If so, use the lower scale. This
provides a more accurate reading.
Another consideration in the circuit voltage test is the resistance and current in the circuit. A low
resistance in a high-current circuit could result in considerable voltage drop, whereas the same resistance
in a low-current circuit may be minimal. Abnormal resistance in part of a circuit can be checked with
either an ohmmeter or a voltmeter. Where practical, an ohmmeter should be used because the test is then
carried out with a "dead" circuit.
The majority of the electronic circuits you will encounter in equipment will be low-current circuits,
and most voltage readings will be direct current. Also, many of the schematics will indicate the voltages
at various test points. Therefore, if you suspect that a certain stage is defective, you can check the voltage
by connecting a voltmeter from the test point to ground. If the suspected stage is not defective, the
voltmeter readings should match the voltages given on the schematic.
Some technical manuals also contain voltage charts on which all the voltage measurements are
tabulated. These charts usually indicate the sensitivity of the meter (for example, 20,000 ohms/volt) used
to obtain the voltage readings for the chart. To obtain comparable results, you must use a voltmeter of the
same sensitivity (or greater) as that specified. Make certain that the voltmeter is not "loading" the circuit
while taking a measurement. If the meter resistance is not considerably higher than the circuit resistance,
the reading will be markedly lower than the true circuit voltage because of the voltmeter’ s loading effect.
(To calculate meter resistance, multiply the rated ohms-per-volt sensitivity value of the meter by the scale
in use. For example, a 1,000-ohms-per-volt meter set to the 300-volt scale will have a resistance of
300,000 ohms.)
RESISTANCE TESTS
Before checking the resistance of a circuit or of a part, make certain that the power has been turned
off. Also make sure capacitors in the associated circuit are fully discharged. To check continuity, always
use the lowest ohmmeter range. If the highest range is used, the meter may indicate zero, even though
appreciable resistance is present in the circuit. Conversely, to check a high resistance, use the highest
scale since the lower range scale may indicate infinity, even though the resistance is less than a megohm.
In making resistance tests, you must remember that even though the external ohmmeter leads are

===== PDF-side 106 =====

3-30
connected in parallel with the circuit to be measured, the internal meter circuitry is electrically connected
in series.
In making resistance tests, take into account that other circuits containing resistances and
capacitances may be in parallel with the circuit to be measured. Erroneous conclusions may be drawn
from readings obtained in such cases. Remember, a capacitor blocks the dc flow from the ohmmeter. To
obtain an accurate reading when other parts are connected across the suspected circuit, disconnect one end
of the circuit to be measured from the equipment. For example, many of the resistors in major
components and subassemblies are connected across transformer windings. To obtain a valid resistance
measurement, you must isolate the resistors to be measured from the shunt resistances of the coils of the
transformers.
Resistance tests are also used to check a component for grounds. In these tests, the component to be
tested should be disconnected from the rest of the circuit so that no normal circuit ground will exist.
Dismounting the component to be checked is not necessary. The ohmmeter is set for a high-resistance
range. Then the ohmmeter is connected between ground and each electrically separate circuit of the
component being tested. Any resistance reading less than infinity indicates at least a partial ground. You
can also check capacitors suspected of being short-circuited by measuring the resistance. To check a
capacitor suspected of being open, temporarily shunt a known good capacitor then recheck the
performance of the circuit.
CAUTION
To avoid possible damage to equipment during resistance tests, observe the
following precautions:
• Always connect an ammeter in series— never in parallel.
• Connect a voltmeter in parallel.
• Never connect an ohmmeter to a live circuit.
• Observe polarity when using a dc ammeter or a dc voltmeter.
• View meters directly from the front. When viewed from an angle off to the side, an incorrect
reading will result because of OPTICAL PARALLAX. (Parallax was covered in NEETS, Module
3, Introduction to Circuit Protection, Control, and Measurement.)
• Always choose an instrument suitable for the measurement desired.
• Select the highest range first and then switch to the proper range.
• In using a meter, choose a scale that will result in an indication as near midscale as possible.
• Do not mount or use instruments in the presence of a strong magnetic field.
• Remember, a low internal resistance voltmeter (low sensitivity) may shunt the circuit being
measured and result in incorrect readings.

===== PDF-side 107 =====

3-31
SUMMARY
The important points of this chapter are summarized in the following paragraphs. You should be
familiar with these points before continuing with your study of test equipment.
A permanent-magnet, moving-coil meter movement (D’ARSONVAL movement) uses the
interaction of magnetic fields to produce movement.
DAMPING is used to smooth out the vibration and to help prevent overshooting of the meter
pointer.
ELECTRODYNAMOMETER movements are usually used in wattmeters. They operate much like
the D’ Arsonval meter movement, except field coils are used instead of a permanent magnet.
Electrodynamometer movements measure either ac or dc without the use of a rectifier.

===== PDF-side 108 =====

3-32
A SHUNT is a physically large, low-resistance conductor connected in parallel with the meter
terminals. It carries the majority of the load current so that only a small portion of the total current will
flow through the meter coil.
An AMMETER measures current and is always connected in series with the circuit being measured.
An ammeter should have a low resistance so that the effect of the ammeter on the circuit will be kept to a
minimum.
VOLTMETERS are used to measure voltage and are always connected in parallel with the circuit
being measured. A voltmeter should have a high resistance compared to the circuit being measured to
minimize the loading effect. Voltmeter sensitivity is expressed in ohms per volt.
OHMMETERS are used to measure resistance and to check continuity. An ohmmeter is electrically
connected in series with the resistance being measured. The ohmmeter range, which allows a midscale
deflection, should be used.
A MEGOHMMETER (MEGGER) is used to measure very high resistance, such as the insulation
of wiring.
A WATTMETER is usually an electrodynamometer and is used to measure power.

===== PDF-side 109 =====

3-33
A CONTINUITY TEST is accomplished with an ohmmeter. This test is used to check for opens (or
to see if the circuit is complete or continuous).
GROUNDED CIRCUITS are caused by some conducting part of the circuit making contact either
directly or indirectly with the metallic structure of the ship or chassis. In testing for grounds, you may use
either an ohmmeter or a megger.
A SHORT CIRCUIT, other than a grounded one, is where two conductors touch each other directly
or through another conducting element. An ohmmeter is used to test for shorts.
ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS Q1. THROUGH Q29.
 A-1. Self-excited.
 A-2. Phosphor bronze ribbons.
 A-3. The pointer arrangement and the light and mirror arrangement.
 A-4. Coil balance.
 A-5. Hairspring.
 A-6. Hairspring.
 A-7. Makes it possible to have a more linear scale than if the poles were flat.
 A-8. Shunt.
 A-9. Zero-temperature coefficient.
 A-10. Midscale.
 A-11. In series.
 A-12. Negative, positive.

===== PDF-side 110 =====

3-34
 A-13. False.
 A-14. Meter-loading.
 A-15. A multimeter (high resistance) is placed in series with the coil of the meter.
 A-16. The current required for full-scale deflection, and the range of the voltage to be measured.
 A-17. In parallel.
 A-18. High.
 A-19. Ohms per volt.
 A-20. Megohmmeter (megger).
 A-21. 1.  A source of dc potential.   2.  One or more resistors (one of which is variable).
 A-22. Zero.
 A-23. 1/10.
 A-24. Shunts leakage current, which prevents false readings.
 A-25. 500.
 A-26. Friction clutches.
 A-27. Fixed coils.
 A-28. Size of spiral conducting.
 A-29. The electrodynamometer-type meter can be used to measure both ac and dc currents.

===== PDF-side 111 =====

4-1
CHAPTER 4
COMMON TEST EQUIPMENT
LEARNING OBJECTIVES
Upon completing this chapter, you should be able to:
1. Describe the proper operating procedures for using the multimeter.
2. Describe the proper operating procedures for using the digital multimeter.
3. Describe the proper operating procedures for using the differential voltmeter.
4. Describe the proper operation of the transistor tester.
5. Describe the proper procedure for using the RCL bridge to measure resistance, capacitance, and
inductance.
INTRODUCTION
In the previous chapters, you have learned how to use some basic and miscellaneous measuring
instruments to perform required maintenance and upkeep of electronic systems and components. You
were also introduced to the construction and operation of basic meter movements in test equipment. This
chapter will introduce you to some of the testing instruments commonly used in the Navy today.
MULTIMETERS
During troubleshooting, you will often be required to measure voltage, current, and resistance.
Rather than using three or more separate meters for these measurements, you can use the
MULTIMETER. The multimeter contains circuitry that allows it to be used as a voltmeter, an ammeter,
or an ohmmeter. A multimeter is often called a VOLT-OHM-MILLIAMMETER (VOM).
One of the greatest advantages of a VOM is that no external power source is required for its
operation; therefore, no warm-up is necessary. Other advantages are its portability, versatility, and
freedom from calibration errors caused by aging tubes, line voltage variations, and so forth.
 Q-1. What is one of the greatest advantages of a VOM?
Two disadvantages are that (1) the VOM tends to "load" the circuit under test, and (2) the meter
movement is easily damaged as a result of improper testing procedures.
CAUTION
Never press down on or place any object on the glass face of any multimeter.
This can disable the meter movement from operating properly or cause damage.

===== PDF-side 112 =====

4-2
MEASURING RESISTANCE, VOLTAGE, AND CURRENT WITH A VOM
In the discussion that follows, you will become familiar with the operation and use of the multimeter
in measuring resistance, voltage, and current.
The meter selected for this discussion is the Simpson 260 multimeter, as shown in figure 4-1. The
Simpson 260 is a typical VOM used in the Navy today.
Figure 4-1.—Simpson 260 Series 6XLP Volt-Ohm-Milliammeter (VOM).

===== PDF-side 113 =====

4-3
The multimeter has two selector switches. The switch on the lower left is the function switch, and the
one in the lower center is the range switch. The function switch selects the type of current you will be
measuring (+dc, -dc, or ac). The range switch is a 12-position switch that selects the range of ohmmeter,
voltmeter, or milliammeter measurements you will make.
The multimeter is equipped with a pair of test leads; red is the positive lead and black is the negative,
or common, lead. Eight jacks are located on the lower part of the front panel. To prepare the meter for
use, simply insert the test leads into the proper jacks to obtain the circuit and range desired for each
application. In most applications, the black lead will be inserted into the jack marked at the lower left with
a negative sign (-) or with the word COMMON.
Measuring Resistance
Before proceeding, you should be aware of the following important safety precaution that must be
observed when using the ohmmeter function of a VOM:
CAUTION
Never connect an ohmmeter to a "hot" (energized) circuit. Be sure that no power is applied
and that all capacitors are discharged.
 Q-2. Before you connect a VOM in a circuit for an ohmmeter reading, in what condition must the
circuit be?
The internal components of the multimeter use very little current and are protected from damage by
an overload protection circuit (fuse or circuit breaker). However, damage may still occur if you neglect
the safety precaution in the CAUTION instructions above.
Because no external power is applied to the component being tested in a resistance check, a logical
question you may ask is, Where does the power for deflection of the ohmmeter come from? The
multimeter contains its own two-battery power supply inside the case. The resistive components inside
the multimeter are of such values that when the leads are connected together (no resistance), the meter
indicates a full-scale deflection. Because there is no resistance between the shorted leads, full-scale
deflection represents zero resistance.
Before making a measurement, you must zero the ohmmeter to ensure accurate readings. This is
accomplished by shorting the leads together and adjusting the OHMS ADJ control so that the pointer is
pointing directly at the zero mark on the OHMS scale. The ZERO OHMS control is continuously variable
and is used to adjust the meter circuit sensitivity to compensate for battery aging in the ohmmeter circuits.
An important point to remember when you are making an accurate resistance measurement is to
"zero" the meter each time you select a new range. If this is not done, the readings you obtain will
probably be incorrect.
When making a resistance measurement on a resistor, you must give the following considerations to
the resistor being tested:
• The resistor must be electrically isolated. In some instances, a soldered connection will have to be
disconnected to isolate the resistor. Generally, isolating one side of the resistor is satisfactory for
you to make an accurate reading.

===== PDF-side 114 =====

4-4
• The meter leads must make good electrical contact with the resistor leads. Points of contact
should be checked for dirt, grease, varnish, paint or any other material that may affect current
flow.
• Touch only the insulated portions of the test leads. Your body has a certain amount of resistance,
which the ohmmeter will measure if you touch the uninsulated portions of the leads.
Figure 4-2 is a functional block diagram of the ohmmeter circuit in a VOM. The proper method of
checking a resistor is to connect the red lead to one end of the resistor and the black lead to the other end
of the resistor.
Figure 4-2.—Functional block diagram of an ohmmeter circuit.
Because zero resistance causes full-scale deflection, you should realize that the deflection of the
meter is inversely proportional to the resistance being tested; that is, for a small resistance value, the
deflection will be nearly full scale; and for a large resistance value, the deflection will be considerably
less. This means that the left portion of the OHMS scale represents high resistance; the right side of the
scale represents low resistance. Zero resistance (a short circuit) is indicated on the extreme right side of
the scale; infinite resistance (an open circuit) is located on the extreme left side of the scale.
Notice that you read the OHMS scale on the multimeter from RIGHT to LEFT. For example, the
pointer of the multimeter in figure 4-3 indicates 8.0 ohms. To determine the actual value of a resistor,
multiply the reading on the meter scale by the range switch setting (R · 1, R · 100, or R · 10,000).

===== PDF-side 115 =====

4-5
Figure 4-3.—Ohmmeter scale.
Notice that the scale marks are crowded on the left side of the OHMS scale, which makes them
difficult to read. Therefore, the best range to select is one in which the pointer will fall in the space from
midscale to slightly to the right side of midscale. The divisions in this area of the scale are evenly spaced
and provide for easier reading and greater accuracy.
 Q-3. When taking resistance readings with a VOM, you will obtain the most accurate readings at or
near what part of the scale?
To explain the relationship between the meter readings and the range switch setting, let’ s use an
example. Suppose you have a 2,400-ohm resistor, which you have identified by the resistor color code.
With the range switch in the R · 1 position, you connect the meter across the resistor. The meter point
then deflects between 200 and the point labeled with the infinity symbol (¥ ) on the extreme left side of
the scale. Because the R · 1 range is selected, you multiply the reading by 1. Obviously, the scale reading
is not accurate enough. Therefore, you move the range selector switch to the next higher scale position (R
· 100) to obtain a more easily read value.
In the R · 100 position, you again zero the meter. This time, the pointer moves to the 24 mark on the
scale. Because the R · 100 scale is selected, the reading is multiplied by 100. This gives a more accurate
reading of 2,400 ohms (24 times 100).
If you position the range switch to the R · 10,000 scale, accuracy decreases. The most accurate
readings are obtained at or near midscale. Other VOM instruments have ranges with other settings, such
as R · 10, R · 100, or R · 1,000, to make it easier to make such readings.
Another thing to remember when you are measuring resistance is the tolerance of the resistor. If the
tolerance of the resistor in the preceding example is 10 percent, we would expect a reading between
approximately 2,160 and 2,640 ohms. If the reading is not within these limits, the resistor has probably
changed value and should be discarded.
An open resistor will indicate no deflection on the meter. A shorted resistor causes full-scale
deflection to the right on the lowest range scale, such as if the leads were shorted together.

===== PDF-side 116 =====

4-6
Measuring dc Voltages
You set the multimeter to operate as a dc voltmeter by placing the function switch in either of two
positions: +DC or -DC. The meter leads, as in the case of the ohmmeter function, must be connected to
the proper meter jacks. When you measure dc voltages, be sure the red lead is the positive lead and the
black lead is the negative, or common, lead. View A of figure 4-4 is a functional block diagram of dc
voltage circuits in a multimeter. View B shows the jacks and switch positions for measuring dc voltages.
Figure 4-4.—Functional block diagram of dc voltage circuits.
When the meter is connected in a circuit, it becomes a circuit component. Because all meters have
some resistance, they alter the circuit by changing the current. The resistance presented by the voltmeter
depends on the amount of voltage being measured and the position of the function switch.
Some multimeters use a 20,000 ohms-per-volt meter sensitivity for measuring dc voltage and a 5,000
ohms-per-volt sensitivity for measuring ac voltage. The higher the meter resistance, the less it will load
the circuit. The idea is to keep circuit loading to an absolute minimum so that the circuit under test is
unaffected by the meter. In this way, you can get a clearer picture of what the circuit malfunction is, not
the effect of the meter on the circuit.
Again, refer to figure 4-4. With the function switch set to either +DC or -DC, let’ s consider the
effect of the range switch on the meter scale to be used. When measuring dc voltages, you have eight
voltage ranges available: .25V, 2.5V, 10V, 50V, 250V, and 500V (1- and 1,000-volt special application
plug-ins are also available). The setting of the range switch determines the maximum value represented
on the meter. When measuring dc voltages, use the scale marked DC (figure 4-3). The last number at the
extreme right side of the DC scale indicates the maximum value of the range being used. When the range
switch is in the 2.5V position, the scale represents a maximum of 2.5 volts.
To simplify the relationship between the digits on the meter scale and the setting of the range switch,
always use the multiple of the full-scale-deflection digits on the meter face that correspond to the numbers
of the range switch. For example, use the 250 scale for the 250MV jack, 2.5V, and 250V ranges; the 50
on the scale for 50V and 500V ranges; and the 10 on the scale for the 10V and 1,000V ranges.

===== PDF-side 117 =====

4-7
For explanation purposes, let’ s assume you wish to measure 30 volts dc. In this case, select the next
higher range position, 50V. When you place the range switch to the 50V position (as shown in view B of
figure 4-4), the meter pointer should rise from a little more than midscale to 30, which represents 30 volts
dc.
When measuring a known dc voltage, position the range switch to a setting that will cause
approximately midscale deflection. Readings taken near the center of the scale are the most accurate.
When measuring an unknown dc voltage, always begin on the highest voltage range. Using the range
switch, work down to an appropriate range. If the meter pointer moves to the left, you should reverse the
polarity of the function switch.
CAUTION
Always check the polarity before connecting the meter.
 Q-4. Besides setting up the meter for expected voltage ranges, what must be strictly observed when
taking dc voltage readings?
Now let’ s discuss how you take a voltage measurement on a component within a circuit. As an
example, let’ s measure the voltage drop across the resistor shown in figure 4-5.

===== PDF-side 118 =====

4-8
Figure 4-5.—Measuring the voltage drop of a resistor.
When measuring a dc voltage drop across a component in a circuit, you must connect the voltmeter
in parallel with the component. As you can see in figure 4-5, the positive (red) lead is connected to the
positive side of the resistor, and the negative (black) lead is connected to the negative side. A voltage
reading is obtained on the meter when current flows through the resistor.
Some voltmeter readings will require the use of a ground as a reference point. Under these
conditions, one voltmeter lead is connected to the equipment ground, and the other lead is connected to
the test point where voltage is to be measured. Be sure to observe polarity.
Measuring ac Voltages
To measure ac voltages, you must set the function switch to the AC position. The same procedure
used to measure dc voltages applies, except that in reading the voltage, you use the AC volts scale (the
polarity of the test leads is not important). When measuring very low or high frequencies of ac voltages,
you should be aware that the multimeter has a tendency to be inaccurate. View A of figure 4-6 is a

===== PDF-side 119 =====

4-9
functional block diagram of the ac and output voltage circuits in the multimeter. View B shows the jacks
and switch positions used to measure ac voltages.
Figure 4-6.—Functional block diagram of ac and output voltage circuits.
Measuring Output Voltages
You will often measure the ac component of an output voltage where both ac and dc voltage levels
exist. This occurs primarily in amplifier circuits.
The multimeter has a 0.1-microfarad, 400-volt blocking capacitor in series with the OUTPUT jack.
The capacitor blocks the dc component of the current in the circuit under test, but allows the ac
component to pass on to the indicating circuits.
CAUTION
When using OUTPUT, do not attempt to use the meter in a circuit in which the
dc voltage component exceeds the 400-volt rating of the blocking capacitor.
To use the multimeter to measure output voltage, you must follow these steps:
1. Set the function switch to AC.
2. Plug the black test lead into the COMMON jack and the red test lead into the OUTPUT jack.
3. Set the range switch at the appropriate range position, marked as 2.5V, 10V, 50V, or 250V.
4. Connect the test leads to the component being measured with the black test lead to the negative
side of the component.

===== PDF-side 120 =====

4-10
5. Turn on the power in the test circuit. Read the output voltage on the appropriate ac voltage scale.
For the 2.5V range, read the value directly on the scale marked 2.5. For the 10V, 50V, or 250V
range, use the red scale marked AC and read the black figures immediately above the scale.
Measuring Current
The multimeter can function as an ammeter to measure current flow.
CAUTION
When using the multimeter as a current-indicating instrument, NEVER
connect the test leads directly across a voltage. ALWAYS connect the instrument in
series with the load.
To use the multimeter as an ammeter, you must take the following steps:
1. Set the function switch at +DC (assuming the current to be positive).
2. Plug the black test lead in the COMMON jack and the red test lead into the + jack.
3. Set the range switch at one of the five ampere-range positions.
4. Ensure the equipment is OFF and then physically open the circuit in which the current is being
measured.
5. Connect the VOM in series with the circuit, ensuring that proper polarity is observed when
making this connection.
6. Turn the equipment ON and then read the current on the DC scale. (This is the same scale used
to measure dc voltages.)
The setting of the range switch determines the maximum value represented by the DC scale. Always
use the range scale that corresponds to the range switch setting.
CAUTION
Never attempt to measure currents greater than the setting of the range switch.
Increase the range with a shunt, if necessary, but do not exceed the marked current.
When measuring unknown currents, follow the same procedures as when measuring voltages.
Always start with the highest range available and work down. Use the range that gives approximately
half-scale deflection. If this procedure isn’ t followed, the meter could be burned out.
Figure 4-7 is a functional block diagram of the dc current circuits in a multimeter.

===== PDF-side 121 =====

4-11
Figure 4-7.—Functional block diagram of dc current circuits.
Accessories
A dc high-voltage probe is available for use with the multimeter. The probe extends the range of the
multimeter in a safe and convenient manner. It is primarily used to measure high-voltage, low-power, dc-
current sources, such as the anode supplies in television receivers and other cathode-ray tube circuitry.
CAUTION
Do not use this probe on electrical equipment that can deliver high power
under short-circuit conditions, such as from a large dc motor-generator set.
Also available is an ac high-voltage probe. The 10,000-volt ac probe is similar to the high-voltage dc
probe with the following exceptions:
• The ac high-voltage probe is designed primarily to extend the range of a 5,000-ohms-per-volt
VOM.
• The probe is used with the VOM in the 10V AC position.
• You take readings on the 0-10V AC scale and multiply by 1,000.
ELECTRONIC DIGITAL MULTIMETER
As you studied in chapter 3 (externally excited meters), placing a meter into a circuit causes energy
to be taken from the circuit. The amount of energy taken depends on the sensitivity of the meter. In some
cases, this energy loss cannot be tolerated. For example, in extremely sensitive circuits, such as oscillator
grid circuits and automatic volume control circuits, degradation of normal circuit operation will occur.
This often results in failure to obtain a usable indication of the fault. The use of electronic multimeters is
practical in these sensitive electronic circuits. The higher the input impedance of a meter, the less the
loading effect and the more accurate the measurements taken. Electronic multimeters have considerably
greater input impedances than do nonelectronic multimeters.
One example of a typical electronic multimeter in use within the Navy is the electronic Model
8000A Digital Multimeter. Most electronic digital multimeters overcome the disadvantage of requiring a
continuous external power source by combining an external ac source with an internal rechargeable
battery. Another advantage of this meter is that it can be read directly and does not use a scale. Figure 4-8
shows the model 8000A multimeter.

===== PDF-side 122 =====

4-12
Figure 4-8.—Digital voltmeter 8000A operating features.
Operating Features
The locations of all controls, connectors, and indicators are shown in figure 4-8. The INPUT
terminals, located on the left-hand side of the meter face, provide input connections for voltage or
resistance (V-?) and milliampere current (MA) measurements with respect to the common terminal. The
readout section, located across the upper half of the meter face, contains light-emitting diode (LED)
indicators. They display the measured input and polarity signs for dc measurements. The POWER switch,
located on the lower right-hand side of the meter face, is a push-button switch used to energize the
instrument. The RANGE switches, located on the lower, middle, right-hand portion of the meter face,
select the voltage (200 millivolts, 2, 20, 200, or 1,200 volts), current (200 microamperes, 2, 200, or 2,000
milliamperes), and resistance (200 ohms, 2, 20, 200, or 2,000 kilohms) ranges. The FUNCTION switches,
located on the lower, middle, left-hand portion of the meter face, select the voltage, current, or resistance
modes. The MA input terminal is also a fuse holder for the current protection fuse.
Internal Battery Models
Power is supplied by internal rechargeable batteries that allow the instrument to operate for at least 8
hours. Recharging the batteries is accomplished by switching the POWER switch to OFF and connecting
the instrument to an ac power line. You can use the instrument when recharging the batteries on ac power,
but the recharging time will be extended.
 Q-5. Power for the electronic digital multimeter is normally supplied by what internal power source?
Overload Protection
An overload condition is indicated by the simultaneous flashing of the display readouts. The dc
voltage function can withstand up to 1,200 volts dc or 1,200 volts root-mean-square (rms) on any range.
 Q-6. How is an overload condition indicated by the electronic digital multimeter?
The ac voltage function can sustain up to 1,200 volts rms on the 20-, 200-, and 1,200-volt ranges and
500 volts rms on the 200-millivolt and 2-volt ranges. The current input fuse is protected above 2 amperes
rms. Protection for the resistance function is to 130 volts rms in the 200-ohm and 2-kilohm ranges, and
250 volts rms in the 20-kilohm through 20-megohm ranges.
Basic Digital Multimeter Measurement
Table 4-1 lists the proper function push buttons, range push buttons, and input terminal connections
for performing specific measurements with the model 8000A.

===== PDF-side 123 =====

4-13
Table 4-1.—Basic Measurement Instructions
MEASUREMENT FUNCTION RANGE INPUT
CONNECTION
MAXIMUM
OVERLOAD
REMARKS
DC Volts DCV 200MV, 2,
20, 200, or
1200V
V
/G159/G3/G68/G81/G71
COMMON
1200V dc or 1200V
rms (sinusoidal)
Auto-polarity
DC Milliamperes DC MA /G21/G19/G19/G36/G15/G3/G21/G15/G3/G21/G19/G15
200, or
2000MA
MA and
COMMON
2A (fuse protected)
AC Volts ACV 200MV, 2,
20, 200, or
1200V
V /G159/G3/G68/G81/G71
COMMON
1200V rms
(sinusoidal), not to
exceed 107 V-Hz on
20, 200, 1200V
ranges. 500V rms
(sinusoidal) on
200mV and 2V
ranges.
AC Milliamperes AC MA /G21/G19/G19/G36/G15/G3/G21/G15/G3/G21/G19/G15
200, or
2000MA
MA and
COMMON
2A (fuse protected)
Kilohms K /G159 /G21/G19/G19 /G15/G3/G21/G15/G3/G21/G19/G15
200, or
/G21/G19/G19/G19/G46
V /G159/G3/G68/G81/G71
COMMON
130V rms, 200/G159/G68/G81/G71
2K/G159/G3/G85/G68/G81/G74/G72/G86/G17/G3/G21/G24/G19/G57
rms, 20k/G159/G3/G87/G75/G85/G88
2000k/G159/G3/G85/G68/G81/G74/G72/G86/G17
Megohms /G21/G19/G48 Any V /G159/G3/G68/G81/G71
COMMON
250V rms Ranges switches
non-functional
Block Diagram Analysis
Figure 4-9 is a block diagram of an electronic digital multimeter. Note that the block diagram divides
the instrument into three major sections: the SIGNAL CONDITIONING section, the ANALOG-TO-
DIGITAL CONVERTER section, and the DISPLAY section.
Figure 4-9.—Model 8000A block diagram.

===== PDF-side 124 =====

4-14
The signal conditioning section provides a dc analog voltage, characteristic of the applied input, to
the analog-to-digital converter section. This task is accomplished by the input voltage divider, current
shunts, ac converter, active filter, and associated switching.
The analog-to-digital (a/d) converter section changes the dc output voltage from the signal
conditioning section to digital information. The a/d converter uses a voltage-to-frequency conversion
technique. A dc voltage at the input of the a/d converter is changed to a frequency by the analog
integrated circuit (ic). This frequency is characteristic of the magnitude and polarity of the dc input
voltage. Counting of the output frequency from the analog ic is accomplished by the digital ic. The
resulting count is transferred in binary format to the display section. (Binary number systems are covered
in NEETS, Module 13, Introduction to Number Systems, Boolean Algebra, and Logic Circuits.)
The display section takes the digital (binary) information from the a/d converter section, decodes it,
and visually displays it. The decoded digital information is displayed on numerical LED readouts.
 Q-7. In an electronic digital multimeter, the digital information is displayed by what type of numerical
readouts?
Accessories
Several accessories are available for use with the electronic digital multimeter. One accessory is the
test lead kit, shown in figure 4-10. The kit contains two color-coded test leads with threaded adapters.
These adapters attach to banana plugs, pin tips, test prod tips, alligator clips, and binding post lugs.
Figure 4-10.—Test lead kit.
Figure 4-11 shows a high-current probe. This probe extends the ac current measurement capability
from 2 to 600 amperes at frequencies up to 400 hertz.

===== PDF-side 125 =====

4-15
Figure 4-11.—Ac high-current probe.
Figure 4-12 shows a high-voltage probe. The probe extends the dc voltage range to 30 kilovolts.
Figure 4-12.—High-voltage probe.
Figure 4-13 shows a high-frequency probe, which allows measurements over a frequency range of 10
kilohertz to 500 megahertz.

===== PDF-side 126 =====

4-16
Figure 4-13.—High-frequency probe.
AC/DC DIFFERENTIAL VOLTMETER
The DIFFERENTIAL VOLTMETER provides extremely accurate voltage measurements and is a
highly reliable piece of precision test equipment. Its general function is to compare an unknown voltage
with a known internal reference voltage and to indicate the difference in their values. The differential
voltmeter in common use in the Navy today is the model 893A (figure 4-14).

===== PDF-side 127 =====

4-17
Figure 4-14.—Ac/dc differential voltmeter.
 Q-8. What is the general function of the differential voltmeter?
The differential voltmeter can be used as a conventional TRANSISTORIZED ELECTRONIC
VOLTMETER (TVM) and a DIFFERENTIAL NULL VOLTMETER. It can also be used to measure
variations of a voltage near some known value (NULL DETECTOR), high resistance values
(MEGGOMETER), and for dBm measurements.
METER DESIGN CHARACTERISTICS
The differential voltmeter is a solid-state instrument that provides the capability of making dc
voltage measurements from +/- 10 microvolts to +/- 1,100 volts. Ac voltages from 0.001 to 1,100 volts
can be measured over a frequency range from 5 hertz to 100 kilohertz. Both of these measurements can be
made without concern for loading the circuit. The differential voltmeter has four voltage readout dials that
vary the resistance of the divider assembly as described above.
The differential voltmeter uses a built-in NULL DETECTOR to measure an unknown voltage. The
meter circuitry compares the unknown voltage to a known, adjustable reference voltage supplied by the
meter. The reference voltage is provided by a high-voltage dc power supply and decade resistor divider
assembly strings that are set by voltage readout dials. In this way, the output from the high-voltage power
supply can be precisely divided into increments as small as 10 microvolts. The readout dials are used to
adjust the meter pointer to 0 and the unknown voltage is then read from the voltage dials.
A primary feature of the differential voltmeter is that it does not draw current from the unknown
source for dc measurements when the measurement is obtained. Therefore, the determination of the
unknown dc potential is independent of its source.
FRONT PANEL CONTROLS
The front panel of a typical differential voltmeter is shown in figure 4-15. With a few differences, the
controls and terminals are similar to those used on other differential voltmeters. The NULL SENSE

===== PDF-side 128 =====

4-18
switch selects the conventional TVM mode of operation and the various full-scale null detector sensitivity
ranges when the instrument is operated in the differential mode of operation. The RANGE switch allows
selection of the desired input voltage range, positions the readout dial decimal point, and selects the
various ranges of the NULL SENSE switch. The readout dials provide a digital readout of the measured
voltage when the instrument is in the differential mode.
Figure 4-15.—Controls, terminals, and indicators.
MODES OF OPERATION
There are two primary modes of operation: the conventional transistorized voltmeter mode and the
differential null mode. These modes are described in the next paragraphs.
Conventional Transistorized Voltmeter (TVM) Mode
When the instrument is used as a conventional transistorized dc voltmeter, the circuitry is connected
as shown in figure 4-16. The null detector drives the front panel meter and provides a full-scale meter
deflection for any full-scale input. Positive or negative voltage measurements are made by reversing the
meter terminals through the contacts of the MODE switch.

===== PDF-side 129 =====

4-19
Figure 4-16.—Ac/dc differential voltmeter block diagram.
FUNCTIONAL BLOCK DIAGRAM
Figure 4-16 is a functional block diagram of a differential voltmeter. The circuitry is made up of a
reference supply, a resistive divider, a dc input divider, an ac converter, a null detector, and a meter. The
circuitry is interconnected by various switching arrangements when you perform the desired ac or dc
conventional or differential voltage measurements.
Placing the MODE switch in figure 4-16 to the AC position connects the instrument circuitry as a
conventional transistorized ac voltmeter. A full-scale input voltage at the input terminals of the instrument
results in a voltage being applied to the input of the null detector. The null detector drives the front panel
meter that indicates the value of the measured ac voltage.
Differential Null Mode
When the instrument is used as a dc differential voltmeter, the MODE and NULL SENS switches in
figure 4-16 are placed to their respective +/- dc and desired full-scale meter sensitivity positions. In this
mode of operation, the NULL SENS switch selects a suitable resistance value to determine the full-scale
sensitivity of the meter. The dc input voltage applied to the instrument is then compared with the null
detector, and any resulting difference is used to drive the meter. The meter terminals can be reversed
through the contacts of the MODE switch for +/- dc voltage measurements.
TRANSISTOR TESTERS
Laboratory transistor test sets are used in experimental work to test characteristics of transistors. For
maintenance and repair, however, checking all transistor parameters is not necessary. A check of two or
three performance characteristics is usually sufficient to determine whether a transistor needs to be
replaced.

===== PDF-side 130 =====

4-20
Two of the most important parameters used for transistor testing are the transistor CURRENT GAIN
(BETA) and the COLLECTOR LEAKAGE or REVERSE CURRENT (ICO). Two other tests that can be
accomplished include the electrode resistance and diode measurements. You may want to review NEETS,
Module 7, Introduction to Solid-State Devices and Power Supplies, for a review of transistors before
continuing this section.
The Semiconductor Test Set AN/USM-206A (figure 4-17) is a rugged, field-type tester designed to
test transistors and semiconductor diodes. The set will measure the beta of a transistor, the resistance
appearing at the electrodes, and the reverse current of a transistor or semiconductor diode. It will also
measure a shorted or open condition of a diode, the forward transconductance of a field-effect transistor,
and the condition of its own batteries.
Figure 4-17.—Semiconductor test set.
To assure that accurate and useful information is gained from the transistor tester, you should make
the following preliminary checks of the tester before testing any transistors:
1. With the POLARITY switch in the OFF position, the meter pointer should indicate exactly zero.
(When required, rotate the meter ZERO ADJUST KNOB on the front of the meter to fulfill this
requirement.) To prevent battery drain, be sure to leave the POLARITY switch in the OFF
position when measurements are not actually being made.
2. Always check the condition of the test set batteries. To make this check, disconnect the test set
power cord, place the polarity switch in the PNP position, and place the function switch first to
BAT. 1and then to BAT. 2. In both BAT positions, the meter pointer should move so as to
indicate within the red BAT box.

===== PDF-side 131 =====

4-21
BETA MEASUREMENTS
If the transistor is to be tested out of the circuit, plug it into the test jack located on the right-hand
side below the meter. If the transistor is to be tested in the circuit, at least 300 ohms must exist between E-
B (emitter to base), C-B (collector to base), and C-E (collector to emitter) for accurate measurement.
Initial setting of the test set controls is performed as follows:
1. Set the function switch to BETA.
2. Set the POLARITY switch to PNP or NPN (depending on the type of transistor under test).
3. Set the RANGE switch to X10.
4. Adjust METER ZERO for zero meter indication (transistor disconnected).
5. The POLARITY switch should remain OFF while the transistor is connected to or disconnected
from the test set; it should then be set to PNP or NPN, as in step 2 above.
If the beta reading is less than 10, perform the following steps:
1. Reset the RANGE switch to X1 and reset the meter to zero.
2. After connecting the yellow test lead to the emitter, the green test lead to the base, and the blue
test lead to the collector, plug the test probe (not shown) into the jack located at the lower right-
hand corner of the test set.
3. When testing grounded equipment, unplug the 115-volt line cord and use battery operation. A
beta reading is attained by multiplying the meter reading times the RANGE switch setting. Refer
to the transistor characteristics book provided with the tester to determine if the reading is
normal for the type of transistor under test.
ICO MEASUREMENTS
Adjust the METER ZERO control for a zero meter indication. Plug the transistor to be tested into the
jack, or connect the test leads to the device. Set the PNP/NPN switch to correspond with the type of
transistor under test. Set the function switch to ICO and the RANGE switch to X0.1, X1.0, or X10, as
specified by the transistor data book for allowable leakage. Read leakage on the bottom scale and
multiply by the range setting figure as required.
ELECTRODE RESISTANCE MEASUREMENTS
Connect the in-circuit probe test leads to the transistor with the yellow lead to the emitter, the green
lead to the base, and the blue lead to the collector. Set the function switch to the OHMS E-B position and
read the resistance between the emitter and base electrode on the center scale of the meter marked OHMS.
To read the resistance between the collector and base and the collector and emitter, set the function
switch to OHMS C-B and OHMS C-E, respectively. These in-circuit electrode resistance measurements
are used to correctly interpret the in-circuit beta measurements. The accuracy of beta times 1 and 10 range
is –15 percent only when the emitter-to-base load is equal to or greater than 300 ohms.
DIODE MEASUREMENTS
Diode in-circuit quality measurements are made by connecting the green test lead to the cathode and
the yellow test lead to the anode. Set the function switch to DIODE IN/CKT and the RANGE switch to

===== PDF-side 132 =====

4-22
times 1 position. Ensure that the meter has been properly zeroed on this scale. If the meter reads down-
scale, reverse the polarity switch. If the meter reads less than midscale, the diode under test is either open
or shorted. The related circuit impedance of this test is less than 25 ohms.
RESISTANCE-CAPACITANCE-INDUCTANCE (RCL) BRIDGES
Resistance, capacitance, and inductance can be measured with precise accuracy by alternating-
current bridges. These bridges are composed of capacitors, inductors, and resistors in a wide variety of
combinations. These bridges operate on the principle of the Wheatstone bridge; that is, an unknown
resistance is balanced against known resistances and, after the bridge has been balanced, the unknown
resistance is calculated in terms of the known resistance.
The universal Impedance Bridge, Model 250DE (shown in figure 4-18) is used to measure
resistance, capacitance, and inductance (RCL) values. It is also used to make other special tests, such as
determining the turns ratio of transformers and capacitor quality tests. This instrument is self-contained,
except for a source of line power, and has an approximate 500-hour battery life expectancy. It has its own
source of 1,000-hertz bridge current with a sensitive bridge balance indicator and an adjustable source of
direct current for electrolytic capacitor and resistance testing. The bridge also contains a meter with
suitable ranges to test for current leakage on electrolytic capacitors.
Figure 4-18.—Resistance-capacitance-inductance bridge.

===== PDF-side 133 =====

4-23
CONTROLS
Figure 4-18 is a panel view of the model 250DE bridge switches, dials, controls, and connections.
Refer to the figure as we briefly discuss some of the switches and dials below.
• The FUNCTION switch selects the type of bridge circuit that will measure resistance,
capacitance, or inductance.
• The RANGE switch selects the multiplier for each function.
• L-R-C decade dials are a DEKASTAT decade resistor that is the main balancing element of the
bridge. The setting of the dials after the bridge is balanced indicates the value of inductance,
resistance, or capacitance.
• The D-Q dial is used to balance the phase of the capacitance or inductance of the bridge. The
setting of the dial after the bridge is balanced indicates the value of dissipation factor (D) or
storage factor (Q).
• The GEN-DET switch selects bridge generator and detector connections, ac or dc, internal or
external generator. The switch also connects the internal batteries to the battery test circuit.
• The DET GAIN control adjusts the sensitivity of the ac-dc detector and turns on power to the
generator.
CONNECTIONS
L, R, and C terminals 1, 2, and 3 are used to connect unknown resistors, inductors, and capacitors to
the bridge. Resistors and inductors are connected between terminals 1 and 2, and capacitors are connected
between terminals 2 and 3. EXT BIAS terminals are normally connected with a shorting lug. They allow
insertion of a dc voltage or current to bias capacitors or inductors. EXT DET connector is a BNC coaxial
socket that allows an external detector to be used with the instrument. It is connected to the bridge at ALL
TIMES.
EXT D-Q terminals are normally connected with a shorting lug. They allow an external rheostat to
extend the range of the D-Q dial. EXT GEN terminals provide a connection to the bridge for an external
generator. When the GEN-DET switch is in the AC EXT GEN position, the terminals connect an isolation
transformer so that a grounded external generator can be used. When the GEN-DET switch is in the DC
EXT GEN position, the terminals are connected directly to the bridge.
BATTERY
The model 250DE bridge has a battery supply consisting of four 1.5 V dc batteries with an expected
life of 500 hours. The battery power supply should be checked before each day’ s operation. Turn DET
GAIN control to 1 and set GEN-DET switch to BATT. TEST (battery test). If the meter deflects beyond
the BAT OK mark, the battery is good.
RESISTANCE MEASUREMENTS
Resistance is usually measured with direct current for maximum accuracy. The model 250DE bridge
can be used to measure resistance with alternating current, but external reactance compensation is usually
required. On high-resistance ranges, care should be taken to avoid leakage across a resistor under test.
Insulation with a resistance of 109 ohms, which is adequate for most purposes, will cause a measurement

===== PDF-side 134 =====

4-24
error of 1 percent if it shunts a 10-megohm resistor. Using the following steps, you will be able to
measure dc resistance ONLY:
1. Turn the DET GAIN control to 2.
2. Set the FUNCTION switch to R · 1 or R · 10.
3. Set L-R-C decade dials to 3.000.
4. Connect the unknown resistor to R-L terminals 1 and 2.
5. Set the GEN-DET switch to INT DC.
6. Adjust the RANGE switch for minimum detector deflection.
7. Adjust L-R-C decade dials for null, turning the DET GAIN control clockwise to increase
sensitivity as necessary.
8. The measured resistance is the product of the L-R-C decade dial setting times the RANGE and
FUNCTION switch settings.
CAPACITANCE MEASUREMENTS
Capacitance is measured in terms of a two-element equivalent circuit consisting of a capacitor in
series with a resistor. The internal ac generator and detector of the model 250DE bridge are tuned to 1
kilohertz. Other frequencies can be used, but an external generator and detector are required. The D and Q
ranges of the bridge can be extended by use of an external rheostat connected to the terminals provided.
The measured capacitance is the product of the L-R-C dial setting times the setting of the RANGE switch.
Using the following steps, you can make a standard capacitance measurement:
1. Turn the DET GAIN control to 1.
2. Set the FUNCTION switch to C, D · 0.1 or D · 0.01 SERIES.
3. Set L-R-C decade dials to 3.000 and D-Q dial to 0.
4. Connect the unknown capacitor to C terminals 2 and 3.
5. Set the GEN DET switch to INT 1 kHz.
6. Adjust the RANGE SWITCH for minimum detector deflection.
7. Adjust L-R-C decade dials and D-Q dial alternately for a minimum meter deflection, turning the
DET GAIN control clockwise to increase sensitivity as necessary.
8. The measured capacitance is the product of the L-R-C decade dial settings.
9. The measured dissipation factor (D) is the product of the D-Q setting times the FUNCTION
switch setting.
INDUCTANCE MEASUREMENTS
Inductance is measured in terms of a two-element equivalent circuit consisting of an inductance
either in series or in parallel with a resistance. The internal ac generator and detector of the model 250DE
bridge are tuned to 1 kHz. Other frequencies can be used, but like capacitance measurements, an external

===== PDF-side 135 =====

4-25
generator and detector are required. When inductance is being measured in ac or dc, it should be realized
that iron-core inductors are sensitive to current variations. Quantitative measurements of dc effects can be
made by supplying current to the unknown inductor through the EXT BIAS terminal. Use the following
steps to make inductance measurements:
1. Turn the DET GAIN control to 1.
2. Set the FUNCTION switch to L PARALLEL if Q is greater than 10 to L SERIES if Q is less than
10.
3. Set L-R-C decade dials to 3.000 and D-Q dial to maximum.
4. Connect the unknown inductor to the R-L terminals 1 and 2
5. Set the GEN DET switch to INT 1 kHz.
6. Adjust the RANGE switch for minimum detector deflection.
7. Adjust the L-R-C decade dials and D-Q dial alternately for a minimum meter deflection, turning
the DET GAIN control clockwise to increase sensitivity as necessary.
8. The measured inductance is the product of the L-R-C decade dial setting times the RANGE
switch setting.
9. The measured storage factor (Q) is read directly from the D-Q dial, inner scale for parallel and
outer scale for series inductance.
SUMMARY
The important points of this chapter are summarized in the following paragraphs. You should be
familiar with these points before continuing with your studies of test equipment.
A MULTIMETER is a single meter that combines the functions of a dc ammeter, a dc voltmeter, an
ac ammeter, an ac voltmeter, and an ohmmeter. Observe the following safety precautions when using a
multimeter:
• De-energize and discharge the circuit completely before connecting a multimeter.
• Never apply power to the circuit while you are measuring resistance with an ohmmeter.
• Connect the ammeter in series for current measurements and in parallel for voltage
measurements.
• Be certain the multimeter is switched to ac before attempting to measure ac circuits.
• Observe proper dc polarity when measuring dc circuits.
• Always start with the highest voltage or current range.
• Select a final range that allows a reading near the middle of the scale.
• Adjust the "0 ohms" reading after changing resistance ranges and before making a resistance
measurement.

===== PDF-side 136 =====

4-26
An ELECTRONIC DIGITAL MULTIMETER is used in sensitive electronic circuits where only
extremely small amounts of energy can be extracted without disturbing the circuits under test, or causing
them to be inoperative.
The DIFFERENTIAL VOLTMETER is a precision piece of test equipment used to compare an
unknown voltage with an internal reference voltage and to indicate the difference in their values.

===== PDF-side 137 =====

4-27
A SEMICONDUCTOR TEST SET is used to measure the beta of a transistor, the resistance
appearing at the electrodes, and the reverse current of a transistor or semiconductor diode. It also
measures a shorted or open condition of a diode, the forward transconductance of a field-effect transistor,
and the condition of its own batteries.

===== PDF-side 138 =====

4-28
Resistance, capacitance, and inductance are measured for precise accuracy by RCL BRIDGES.
They are composed of capacitors, inductors, and resistors and operate on the principle of the Wheatstone
bridge.
ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS Q1. THROUGH Q8.
A-1. No external power source is required.
A-2. De-energized.
A-3. Midscale.
A-4. Polarity.
A-5. Rechargeable batteries.
A-6. Simultaneous flashing of display readouts.
A-7. Light-emitting diodes.
A-8. To compare an unknown voltage with a known reference voltage and indicate the difference in
their values.

===== PDF-side 139 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g20/g3
CHAPTER 5 
SPECIAL-APPLICATION TEST EQUIPMENT 
/g3
LEARNING OBJECTIVES 
/g56/g83/g82/g81/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g79/g72/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g70/g75/g68/g83/g87/g72/g85/g15/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g86/g75/g82/g88/g79/g71/g3/g69/g72/g3/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g87/g82/g29/g3
/g20/g17/g3 /g40/g91/g83/g79/g68/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g82/g85/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g90/g82/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g86/g17/g3
/g21/g17/g3 /g39/g72/g86/g70/g85/g76/g69/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g85/g83/g82/g86/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g73/g82/g88/g81/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g86/g17/g3
/g22/g17/g3 /g39/g72/g86/g70/g85/g76/g69/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g83/g72/g85/g3/g83/g85/g82/g70/g72/g71/g88/g85/g72/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g68/g78/g76/g81/g74/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g76/g81/g70/g76/g71/g72/g81/g87/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g85/g72/g73/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g72/g81/g72/g85/g74/g92/g17/g3
/g23/g17/g3 /g39/g72/g86/g70/g85/g76/g69/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g83/g88/g85/g83/g82/g86/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g73/g82/g88/g81/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g17/g3
/g24/g17/g3 /g40/g91/g83/g79/g68/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g82/g85/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3/g87/g92/g83/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g17/g3
/g25/g17/g3 /g39/g72/g86/g70/g85/g76/g69/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g83/g88/g85/g83/g82/g86/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g73/g82/g88/g81/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g17/g3
/g26/g17/g3 /g40/g91/g83/g79/g68/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g83/g88/g85/g83/g82/g86/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g73/g82/g88/g81/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g43/g88/g81/g87/g85/g82/g81/g3/g55/g85/g68/g70/g78/g72/g85/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g17/g3
/g27/g17/g3 /g39/g72/g86/g70/g85/g76/g69/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g83/g72/g85/g3/g83/g85/g82/g70/g72/g71/g88/g85/g72/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g85/g82/g88/g69/g79/g72/g86/g75/g82/g82/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g68/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g17/g3
/g28/g17/g3 /g39/g72/g86/g70/g85/g76/g69/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g83/g72/g85/g3/g83/g85/g82/g70/g72/g71/g88/g85/g72/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g85/g82/g88/g69/g79/g72/g86/g75/g82/g82/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g43/g88/g81/g87/g85/g82/g81/g3/g55/g85/g68/g70/g78/g72/g85/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g17/g3
/g3
INTRODUCTION 
/g44/g81/g3/g70/g75/g68/g83/g87/g72/g85/g86/g3/g22/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g23/g15/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g86/g87/g88/g71/g76/g72/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g82/g85/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g80/g82/g81/g3/g83/g76/g72/g70/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g72/g84/g88/g76/g83/g80/g72/g81/g87/g17/g3/g36/g86/g3/g68/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g70/g76/g68/g81/g15/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3
/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g85/g82/g88/g87/g76/g81/g72/g79/g92/g3/g88/g86/g72/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g72/g84/g88/g76/g83/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g85/g82/g88/g69/g79/g72/g86/g75/g82/g82/g87/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g83/g72/g85/g73/g82/g85/g80/g3/g80/g68/g76/g81/g87/g72/g81/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g82/g81/g3/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g85/g82/g81/g76/g70/g3/g72/g84/g88/g76/g83/g80/g72/g81/g87/g17/g3
/g43/g82/g90/g72/g89/g72/g85/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g72/g84/g88/g76/g83/g80/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g86/g87/g88/g71/g92/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g70/g75/g68/g83/g87/g72/g85/g3/g80/g68/g92/g3/g82/g85/g3/g80/g68/g92/g3/g81/g82/g87/g3/g69/g72/g3/g73/g82/g88/g81/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g92/g82/g88/g85/g3/g86/g75/g82/g83/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3
/g69/g72/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g72/g84/g88/g76/g83/g80/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g75/g68/g89/g72/g3/g86/g83/g72/g70/g76/g73/g76/g70/g3/g82/g85/g3/g86/g83/g72/g70/g76/g68/g79/g76/g93/g72/g71/g3/g88/g86/g72/g86/g17/g3/g56/g81/g79/g72/g86/g86/g3/g92/g82/g88/g85/g3/g85/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g76/g86/g3/g76/g81/g89/g82/g79/g89/g72/g71/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g72/g84/g88/g76/g83/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g92/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g15/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g80/g68/g92/g3/g81/g82/g87/g3/g75/g68/g89/g72/g3/g85/g72/g68/g86/g82/g81/g3/g87/g82/g3/g88/g86/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g80/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g92/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g72/g81/g87/g72/g71/g3/g75/g72/g85/g72/g3/g86/g82/g3
/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g69/g72/g3/g73/g68/g80/g76/g79/g76/g68/g85/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g76/g85/g3/g82/g89/g72/g85/g68/g79/g79/g3/g73/g88/g81/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g86/g75/g82/g88/g79/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g81/g72/g72/g71/g3/g68/g85/g76/g86/g72/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g72/g84/g88/g76/g83/g80/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g86/g87/g88/g71/g92/g3
/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g70/g75/g68/g83/g87/g72/g85/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g86/g15/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g15/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g86/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g74/g85/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g16/g87/g72/g86/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3
/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g86/g17/g3
/g3
POWER METERS 
/g36/g86/g3/g68/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g70/g76/g68/g81/g15/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g88/g86/g72/g3/g68/g3/g51/g50/g58/g40/g53/g3/g48/g40/g55/g40/g53/g3/g87/g82/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g85/g72/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g89/g68/g85/g76/g82/g88/g86/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3
/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g86/g15/g3/g86/g82/g80/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g70/g68/g79/g79/g72/g71/g3/g58/g36/g55/g55/g48/g40/g55/g40/g53/g54/g17/g3/g41/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g20/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g36/g49/g18/g56/g53/g48/g16/g20/g21/g19/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g15/g3
/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g76/g86/g3/g82/g81/g72/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g70/g82/g80/g80/g82/g81/g79/g92/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g49/g68/g89/g92/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g83/g68/g85/g87/g76/g70/g88/g79/g68/g85/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g86/g3
/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g79/g92/g30/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g86/g15/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g3/g76/g87/g3/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g79/g92/g3/g69/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g85/g68/g81/g86/g80/g76/g87/g87/g72/g85/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g11/g85/g73/g3/g86/g82/g88/g85/g70/g72/g12/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g68/g71/g15/g3
/g80/g82/g86/g87/g3/g79/g76/g78/g72/g79/g92/g3/g68/g81/g3/g68/g81/g87/g72/g81/g81/g68/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 140 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g21/g3
 
Figure 5-1.—Wattmeter (AN/URM-120). 
/g50/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g86/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g79/g92/g30/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g86/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g92/g3/g86/g68/g80/g83/g79/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g76/g81/g3/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g90/g68/g92/g86/g178
/g69/g88/g87/g3/g81/g82/g87/g3/g69/g92/g3/g69/g72/g76/g81/g74/g3/g83/g79/g68/g70/g72/g71/g3/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g79/g92/g3/g69/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g85/g68/g81/g86/g80/g76/g87/g87/g72/g85/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g68/g71/g17/g3/g47/g72/g87/g10/g86/g3/g71/g76/g86/g70/g88/g86/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g16/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g73/g76/g85/g86/g87/g30/g3/g87/g75/g72/g81/g3/g90/g72/g10/g79/g79/g3/g87/g68/g79/g78/g3/g68/g69/g82/g88/g87/g3/g68/g81/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g16/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g17/g3
DIRECT-MEASURING POWER METERS 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g16/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g74/g81/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g3/g76/g81/g70/g76/g71/g72/g81/g87/g3/g11/g73/g82/g85/g90/g68/g85/g71/g12/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g85/g72/g73/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g11/g85/g72/g89/g72/g85/g86/g72/g12/g3
/g85/g73/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g24/g19/g3/g87/g82/g3/g20/g15/g19/g19/g19/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g86/g3/g68/g87/g3/g21/g3/g48/g43/g93/g3/g87/g82/g3/g22/g19/g3/g48/g43/g93/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g20/g19/g3/g87/g82/g3/g24/g19/g19/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g86/g3/g68/g87/g3/g22/g19/g3/g48/g43/g93/g3/g87/g82/g3/g20/g15/g19/g19/g19/g3/g48/g43/g93/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g85/g72/g72/g3/g86/g72/g83/g68/g85/g68/g87/g72/g3/g38/g50/g56/g51/g47/g40/g53/g16/g39/g40/g55/g40/g38/g55/g50/g53/g54/g3/g11/g86/g82/g80/g72/g87/g76/g80/g72/g86/g3/g70/g68/g79/g79/g72/g71/g3/g36/g55/g55/g40/g49/g56/g36/g55/g50/g53/g54/g12/g15/g3/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3/g85/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g70/g82/g89/g72/g85/g3/g68/g3
/g83/g82/g85/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g86/g15/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g71/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g86/g3/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g73/g3
/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g76/g81/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g72/g85/g16/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g78/g81/g82/g69/g3/g83/g85/g82/g77/g72/g70/g87/g86/g3/g87/g75/g85/g82/g88/g74/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g82/g83/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g90/g68/g87/g87/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g70/g68/g86/g72/g15/g3/g68/g86/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g81/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g36/g49/g18/g56/g53/g48/g16/g20/g21/g19/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g20/g17/g3
/g36/g3/g81/g68/g80/g72/g83/g79/g68/g87/g72/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g82/g83/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g51/g50/g58/g40/g53/g3/g53/g36/g49/g42/g40/g3/g78/g81/g82/g69/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g51/g50/g58/g40/g53/g3
/g53/g36/g49/g42/g40/g3/g78/g81/g82/g69/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g22/g25/g19/g158/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g85/g72/g71/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g72/g85/g16/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g72/g86/g3/g20/g27/g19/g158/g3/g76/g81/g86/g76/g71/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g80/g72/g87/g68/g79/g3/g70/g68/g86/g72/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g72/g76/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g73/g82/g85/g90/g68/g85/g71/g3/g82/g85/g3/g85/g72/g89/g72/g85/g86/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g86/g17/g3/g36/g79/g86/g82/g3/g79/g82/g70/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g86/g76/g71/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g72/g87/g68/g79/g3/g70/g68/g86/g72/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g70/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g72/g85/g16/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g47/g50/g38/g46/g44/g49/g42/g3/g78/g81/g82/g69/g3
/g79/g82/g70/g78/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g72/g85/g16/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g51/g50/g58/g40/g53/g3/g53/g36/g49/g42/g40/g3/g78/g81/g82/g69/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g83/g79/g68/g70/g72/g17/g3
/g55/g90/g82/g3/g49/g16/g55/g60/g51/g40/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g11/g82/g81/g72/g3/g80/g68/g79/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g82/g81/g72/g3/g73/g72/g80/g68/g79/g72/g12/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g79/g82/g70/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g72/g76/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g86/g76/g71/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g70/g68/g86/g72/g3
/g87/g82/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g86/g87/g85/g88/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g69/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g86/g82/g88/g85/g70/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g68/g71/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g88/g83/g83/g72/g85/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g79/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g83/g68/g85/g87/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g90/g68/g87/g87/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g75/g72/g79/g71/g3/g87/g82/g74/g72/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g84/g88/g76/g70/g78/g16/g68/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g73/g68/g86/g87/g72/g81/g72/g85/g86/g15/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g83/g72/g85/g80/g76/g87/g3/g72/g68/g86/g92/g3/g68/g70/g70/g72/g86/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g86/g76/g71/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g90/g68/g87/g87/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g17/g3
/g51/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g80/g68/g71/g72/g3/g69/g92/g3/g76/g81/g86/g72/g85/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g83/g72/g85/g3/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g72/g85/g16/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g90/g68/g87/g87/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g85/g68/g81/g86/g80/g76/g86/g86/g76/g82/g81/g3/g79/g76/g81/g72/g3/g69/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g68/g71/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g73/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g86/g82/g88/g85/g70/g72/g17/g3/g55/g82/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72 incident power/g3
/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g15/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g85/g85/g82/g90/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g50/g56/g51/g47/g40/g53/g16/g39/g40/g55/g40/g38/g55/g50/g53/g3/g78/g81/g82/g69/g3/g87/g82/g90/g68/g85/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g68/g71/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g51/g50/g58/g40/g53/g3/g53/g36/g49/g42/g40/g3/g78/g81/g82/g69/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g83/g72/g68/g78/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g85/g72/g68/g71/g76/g81/g74/g17/g3/g55/g82/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g3reflected power/g15/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g85/g85/g82/g90/g3
/g87/g82/g90/g68/g85/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g73/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g86/g82/g88/g85/g70/g72/g17/g3
/g44/g81/g3/g72/g73/g73/g72/g70/g87/g15/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g72/g85/g16/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g85/g72/g86/g83/g82/g81/g71/g3/g82/g81/g79/g92/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g3/g87/g85/g68/g89/g72/g79/g76/g81/g74/g3/g76/g81/g3/g68/g3
/g83/g68/g85/g87/g76/g70/g88/g79/g68/g85/g3/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g72/g76/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3to/g3/g11/g76/g81/g70/g76/g71/g72/g81/g87/g12/g3/g82/g85/g3from/g3/g11/g85/g72/g73/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g12/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g68/g71/g17/g3/g44/g87/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g69/g72/g3/g88/g81/g68/g73/g73/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g68/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g3
/g87/g85/g68/g89/g72/g79/g76/g81/g74/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g83/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g72/g3/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3/g36/g3/g71/g76/g82/g71/g72/g3/g85/g72/g70/g87/g76/g73/g76/g72/g85/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g72/g85/g3/g85/g72/g70/g87/g76/g73/g76/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g72/g81/g72/g85/g74/g92/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3

===== PDF-side 141 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g22/g3
/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g72/g85/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g85/g73/g3/g72/g81/g72/g85/g74/g92/g3/g76/g86/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g71/g3/g68/g70/g85/g82/g86/g86/g3/g68/g3/g78/g81/g82/g90/g81/g3/g76/g80/g83/g72/g71/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g87/g82/g3/g82/g69/g87/g68/g76/g81/g3/g72/g76/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g76/g81/g70/g76/g71/g72/g81/g87/g3/g82/g85/g3
/g85/g72/g73/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g17/g3
Operating the Wattmeter 
/g36/g79/g90/g68/g92/g86/g3/g71/g72/g16/g72/g81/g72/g85/g74/g76/g93/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g68/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g73/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g86/g82/g88/g85/g70/g72/g3/g69/g72/g73/g82/g85/g72/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g76/g81/g74 incident/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g17/g3/g44/g81/g86/g72/g85/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g83/g72/g85/g3
/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g72/g85/g16/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g73/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g69/g72/g76/g81/g74/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g70/g68/g86/g72/g17/g3/g53/g72/g80/g82/g89/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g90/g76/g85/g72/g3/g86/g75/g88/g81/g87/g3/g11/g81/g82/g87/g3
/g86/g75/g82/g90/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g20/g12/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g68/g79/g86/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g81/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g76/g81/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g85/g68/g81/g86/g80/g76/g86/g86/g76/g82/g81/g3/g79/g76/g81/g72/g15/g3
/g72/g76/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g68/g71/g3/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g73/g3/g86/g82/g88/g85/g70/g72/g17/g3/g40/g81/g86/g88/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g68/g79/g79/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g87/g76/g74/g75/g87/g17/g3
/g51/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g51/g50/g58/g40/g53/g3/g53/g36/g49/g42/g40/g3/g78/g81/g82/g69/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g68/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g73/g3/g86/g82/g88/g85/g70/g72/g17/g3
CAUTION 
If the rated power to be measured is not known, place the POWER RANGE 
knob in the highest power position before turning on the power source. 
/g53/g82/g87/g68/g87/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g72/g85/g16/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g86/g82/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g85/g85/g82/g90/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g73/g79/g82/g90/g3/g83/g82/g76/g81/g87/g86/g3/g87/g82/g90/g68/g85/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g68/g71/g17/g3/g55/g88/g85/g81/g3/g82/g81/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g73/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g86/g82/g88/g85/g70/g72/g17/g3/g53/g82/g87/g68/g87/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g51/g50/g58/g40/g53/g3/g53/g36/g49/g42/g40/g3/g78/g81/g82/g69/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g83/g72/g85/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g82/g69/g86/g72/g85/g89/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g83/g82/g76/g81/g87/g3/g68/g87/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g83/g72/g68/g78/g86/g17/g3
Q-1. To measure incident power, you must rotate the coupler-detector of the wattmeter so that the 
arrow indicating power flow points toward which end of the transmission line? 
/g53/g72/g73/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g68/g80/g72/g3/g80/g68/g81/g81/g72/g85/g3/g68/g86/g3/g71/g72/g86/g70/g85/g76/g69/g72/g71/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g76/g81/g70/g76/g71/g72/g81/g87/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g15/g3/g72/g91/g70/g72/g83/g87/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g72/g85/g16/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g86/g82/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g85/g85/g82/g90/g3/g83/g82/g76/g81/g87/g86/g3/g87/g82/g90/g68/g85/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g73/g3/g86/g82/g88/g85/g70/g72/g17/g3
/g36/g73/g87/g72/g85/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g79/g72/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g86/g15/g3/g71/g72/g16/g72/g81/g72/g85/g74/g76/g93/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g73/g3/g86/g82/g88/g85/g70/g72/g15/g3/g71/g76/g86/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g87/g85/g68/g81/g86/g80/g76/g86/g86/g76/g82/g81/g3/g79/g76/g81/g72/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g83/g79/g68/g70/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g90/g76/g85/g72/g3/g86/g75/g88/g81/g87/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g68/g79/g86/g17/g3
Interpreting Power Measurements Made by the Wattmeter 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g85/g73/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g80/g68/g71/g72/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g86/g87/g68/g81/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g3
/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g3/g11/g57/g54/g58/g53/g12/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g68/g71/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g68/g69/g86/g82/g85/g69/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g68/g71/g17/g3/g11/g57/g54/g58/g53/g3/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g89/g72/g85/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g49/g40/g40/g55/g54/g15/g3/g48/g82/g71/g88/g79/g72/g3/g20/g19/g15/g3
Introduction to Wave Propagation, Transmission Lines, and Antennas/g17/g12/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g57/g54/g58/g53/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g72/g71/g3
/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g68/g3/g70/g75/g68/g85/g87/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g80/g68/g81/g88/g68/g79/g15/g3/g82/g85/g3/g76/g87/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g70/g68/g79/g70/g88/g79/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g11/g68/g86/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g73/g82/g79/g79/g82/g90/g76/g81/g74/g3/g72/g91/g68/g80/g83/g79/g72/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g68/g3/g56/g43/g41/g3/g87/g85/g68/g81/g86/g80/g76/g87/g87/g72/g85/g12/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g82/g85/g80/g88/g79/g68/g3/g69/g72/g79/g82/g90/g3/g11/g51/g76/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g70/g76/g71/g72/g81/g87/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g51/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g85/g72/g73/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g68/g86/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g12/g29/g3
/g58/g75/g72/g85/g72/g29/g3
/g51/g76/g3/g32/g3/g22/g19/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g86/g3
/g51/g85/g3/g32/g3/g19/g17/g24/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g86/g3

===== PDF-side 142 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g23/g3
 
/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g72/g91/g68/g80/g83/g79/g72/g3/g68/g69/g82/g89/g72/g3/g85/g72/g86/g88/g79/g87/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g68/g3/g86/g87/g68/g81/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g3/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g3/g72/g91/g83/g85/g72/g86/g86/g72/g71/g3/g68/g86/g3/g20/g17/g22/g3/g87/g82/g3/g20/g17/g3/g44/g81/g3/g68/g3/g83/g72/g85/g73/g72/g70/g87/g79/g92/g3/g80/g68/g87/g70/g75/g72/g71/g3
/g87/g85/g68/g81/g86/g80/g76/g86/g86/g76/g82/g81/g3/g79/g76/g81/g72/g3/g90/g75/g72/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g85/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g81/g82/g3/g85/g72/g73/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g11/g51/g85/g3/g32/g3/g19/g12/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g87/g68/g81/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g3/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g3/g90/g82/g88/g79/g71/g3/g69/g72/g3/g20/g3/g87/g82/g3/g20/g17/g3/g36/g3
/g86/g87/g68/g81/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g3/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g3/g82/g73/g3/g20/g17/g24/g3/g87/g82/g3/g20/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g24/g16/g83/g72/g85/g70/g72/g81/g87/g3/g85/g72/g73/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g72/g81/g72/g85/g74/g92/g3/g11/g79/g82/g86/g86/g12/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g86/g76/g71/g72/g85/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g80/g68/g91/g76/g80/g88/g80/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g79/g82/g86/g86/g17/g3/g54/g82/g15/g3/g82/g88/g85/g3/g72/g91/g68/g80/g83/g79/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g76/g81/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g79/g76/g80/g76/g87/g86/g17/g3
/g44/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g87/g68/g81/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g3/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g3/g76/g86/g3/g74/g85/g72/g68/g87/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g68/g81/g3/g20/g17/g24/g3/g87/g82/g3/g20/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g85/g68/g81/g86/g80/g76/g86/g86/g76/g82/g81/g3/g79/g76/g81/g72/g3/g72/g73/g73/g76/g70/g76/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g75/g68/g86/g3/g71/g72/g70/g85/g72/g68/g86/g72/g71/g3
/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g85/g82/g88/g69/g79/g72/g86/g75/g82/g82/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g76/g86/g3/g81/g72/g70/g72/g86/g86/g68/g85/g92/g17/g3/g36/g81/g3/g72/g91/g70/g72/g79/g79/g72/g81/g87/g3/g71/g76/g86/g70/g88/g86/g86/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g72/g68/g86/g82/g81/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g86/g87/g68/g81/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g3/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g3/g76/g81/g70/g85/g72/g68/g86/g72/g86/g3
/g76/g86/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g72/g81/g87/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g40/g44/g48/g37/g15/g3Test Methods and Practices/g15/g3/g49/g36/g57/g54/g40/g36/g3/g19/g28/g25/g26/g16/g47/g51/g16/g19/g19/g19/g16/g19/g20/g22/g19/g17/g3
/g60/g82/g88/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g73/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g68/g69/g86/g82/g85/g69/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g68/g71/g3/g86/g76/g80/g83/g79/g92/g3/g69/g92/g3/g86/g88/g69/g87/g85/g68/g70/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g72/g73/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3
/g85/g72/g68/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g70/g76/g71/g72/g81/g87/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g85/g72/g68/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g80/g68/g71/g72/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g11/g22/g19/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g86/g3/g16/g3/g19/g17/g24/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g86/g3/g32/g3/g21/g28/g17/g24/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g86/g12/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g77/g88/g86/g87/g3/g71/g76/g86/g70/g88/g86/g86/g72/g71/g3/g76/g86/g3/g82/g73/g87/g72/g81/g3/g71/g72/g86/g70/g85/g76/g69/g72/g71/g3/g68/g86/g3/g68/g81/g3/g44/g49/g16/g47/g44/g49/g40/g3/g51/g50/g58/g40/g53/g3/g48/g40/g55/g40/g53/g3/g69/g72/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g3/g85/g72/g68/g71/g76/g81/g74/g86/g3
/g68/g85/g72/g3/g87/g68/g78/g72/g81/g3/g90/g75/g76/g79/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g86/g72/g85/g76/g72/g86/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g85/g68/g81/g86/g80/g76/g86/g86/g76/g82/g81/g3/g79/g76/g81/g72/g17/g3/g36/g81/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3
/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g49/g68/g89/g92/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g86/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g79/g92/g17/g3/g36/g81/g3/g72/g91/g68/g80/g83/g79/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g81/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g16/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3
/g71/g72/g86/g70/g85/g76/g69/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g81/g72/g91/g87/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3
INDIRECT-MEASURING POWER METERS 
/g36/g81/g3/g72/g91/g68/g80/g83/g79/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g81/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g16/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g43/g51/g16/g23/g22/g20/g38/g15/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g21/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3
/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g15/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g86/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g76/g79/g79/g88/g86/g87/g85/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g22/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3
/g69/g72/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g72/g76/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g68/g81/g3/g68/g70/g3/g82/g85/g3/g71/g70/g3/g83/g85/g76/g80/g68/g85/g92/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g86/g82/g88/g85/g70/g72/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g68/g70/g3/g86/g82/g88/g85/g70/g72/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g72/g76/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g20/g20/g24/g3/g82/g85/g3/g21/g22/g19/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g86/g3/g68/g87/g3
/g24/g19/g3/g87/g82/g3/g23/g19/g19/g3/g75/g72/g85/g87/g93/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g71/g70/g3/g86/g82/g88/g85/g70/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g3/g21/g23/g16/g89/g82/g79/g87/g3/g85/g72/g70/g75/g68/g85/g74/g72/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g69/g68/g87/g87/g72/g85/g92/g17/g3/g50/g89/g72/g85/g68/g79/g79/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3
/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g69/g79/g82/g70/g78/g3/g71/g76/g68/g74/g85/g68/g80/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g23/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 143 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g24/g3
 
Figure 5-2.—Power meter (HP-431C).

===== PDF-side 144 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g25/g3
 
Figure 5-3.—Power meter controls, indicators, and connectors.

===== PDF-side 145 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g26/g3
 
Figure 5-4.—Power meter block diagram. 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g43/g51/g16/g23/g22/g20/g38/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3indirectly/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g86/g3/g80/g76/g70/g85/g82/g90/g68/g89/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g69/g92/g3/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g90/g82/g3/g69/g85/g76/g71/g74/g72/g3
/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g86/g178/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g69/g85/g76/g71/g74/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g72/g81/g86/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g69/g85/g76/g71/g74/g72/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g69/g85/g76/g71/g74/g72/g3
/g76/g81/g70/g82/g85/g83/g82/g85/g68/g87/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g20/g19/g16/g78/g76/g79/g82/g75/g72/g85/g87/g93/g3/g11/g78/g43/g93/g12/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g76/g81/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g87/g88/g71/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g80/g82/g88/g81/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3
/g75/g72/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g85/g80/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g69/g85/g76/g71/g74/g72/g3/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g80/g76/g70/g85/g82/g90/g68/g89/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g17/g3/g11/g55/g75/g72/g85/g80/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g90/g72/g85/g72/g3/g70/g82/g89/g72/g85/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3
/g70/g75/g68/g83/g87/g72/g85/g3/g21/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g80/g82/g71/g88/g79/g72/g17/g12/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g72/g81/g86/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g69/g85/g76/g71/g74/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g68/g76/g81/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g85/g80/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g68/g73/g73/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g68/g80/g72/g3/g80/g76/g70/g85/g82/g90/g68/g89/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g75/g72/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g68/g86/g3/g87/g75/g82/g86/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g69/g85/g76/g71/g74/g72/g17/g3
/g36/g81/g3/g88/g81/g69/g68/g79/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g69/g85/g76/g71/g74/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g20/g19/g16/g78/g43/g93/g3/g72/g85/g85/g82/g85/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g72/g85/g85/g82/g85/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g15/g3/g83/g79/g88/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g20/g19/g16
/g78/g43/g93/g3/g69/g76/g68/g86/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g68/g78/g72/g81/g3/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g79/g92/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g20/g19/g16/g78/g43/g93/g3/g50/g54/g38/g44/g47/g47/g36/g55/g50/g53/g16/g36/g48/g51/g47/g44/g41/g44/g40/g53/g15/g3/g76/g86/g3/g80/g76/g91/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g54/g60/g49/g38/g43/g53/g50/g49/g50/g56/g54/g3/g39/g40/g55/g40/g38/g55/g50/g53/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g86/g92/g81/g70/g75/g85/g82/g81/g82/g88/g86/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g71/g70/g3/g70/g88/g85/g85/g72/g81/g87/g3/g11/g44
/g71/g70/g12/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g83/g85/g82/g83/g82/g85/g87/g76/g82/g81/g68/g79/g3
/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g20/g19/g16/g78/g43/g93/g3/g72/g85/g85/g82/g85/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g44/g71/g70/g3/g72/g85/g85/g82/g85/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g76/g86/g3/g73/g72/g71/g3/g69/g68/g70/g78/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g72/g81/g86/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g69/g85/g76/g71/g74/g72/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g85/g72/g3
/g76/g87/g3/g86/g88/g69/g86/g87/g76/g87/g88/g87/g72/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g20/g19/g16/g78/g43/g93/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g76/g81/g3/g75/g72/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g85/g80/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g71/g85/g76/g89/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g69/g85/g76/g71/g74/g72/g3/g87/g82/g90/g68/g85/g71/g3/g68/g3/g86/g87/g68/g87/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3
/g69/g68/g79/g68/g81/g70/g72/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g71/g70/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g92/g81/g70/g75/g85/g82/g81/g82/g88/g86/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g68/g79/g86/g82/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g68/g3/g89/g76/g86/g88/g68/g79/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3
/g82/g73/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g17/g3
Q-2. What condition produces the 10-kHz error signal generated by the metering bridge in the HP-
431C power meter? 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g43/g51/g16/g23/g22/g20/g38/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g86/g3/g85/g73/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g20/g19/g3/g80/g76/g70/g85/g82/g90/g68/g87/g87/g86/g3/g11−/g21/g19/g3/g71/g37/g80/g12/g3/g87/g82/g3/g20/g19/g3/g80/g76/g79/g79/g76/g90/g68/g87/g87/g86/g3/g11/g14/g20/g19/g3
/g71/g37/g80/g12/g3/g73/g88/g79/g79/g3/g86/g70/g68/g79/g72/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g20/g19/g3/g48/g43/g93/g3/g87/g82/g3/g20/g27/g3/g42/g43/g93/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g68/g3/g24/g19/g16/g82/g75/g80/g3/g70/g82/g68/g91/g76/g68/g79/g3/g86/g92/g86/g87/g72/g80/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g21/g17/g25/g3/g42/g43/g93/g3/g87/g82/g3/g23/g19/g3/g42/g43/g93/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g68/g3
/g90/g68/g89/g72/g74/g88/g76/g71/g72/g3/g86/g92/g86/g87/g72/g80/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 146 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g27/g3
SIGNAL GENERATORS 
/g54/g87/g68/g81/g71/g68/g85/g71/g3/g86/g82/g88/g85/g70/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g70/g3/g72/g81/g72/g85/g74/g92/g15/g3/g69/g82/g87/g75/g3/g68/g88/g71/g76/g82/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g11/g68/g73/g12/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g85/g68/g71/g76/g82/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g11/g85/g73/g12/g15/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g82/g73/g87/g72/g81/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g68/g76/g81/g87/g72/g81/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g85/g82/g81/g76/g70/g3/g72/g84/g88/g76/g83/g80/g72/g81/g87/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g86/g82/g88/g85/g70/g72/g86/g15/g3/g70/g68/g79/g79/g72/g71/g3/g54/g44/g42/g49/g36/g47/g3/g42/g40/g49/g40/g53/g36/g55/g50/g53/g54/g15/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3
/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g79/g76/g74/g81/g3/g68/g79/g79/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g85/g68/g81/g86/g80/g76/g87/g87/g72/g85/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g85/g72/g70/g72/g76/g89/g72/g85/g86/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g92/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g68/g79/g86/g82/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g85/g82/g88/g69/g79/g72/g86/g75/g82/g82/g87/g3/g89/g68/g85/g76/g82/g88/g86/g3/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g85/g82/g81/g76/g70/g3
/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g73/g88/g81/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g3/g68/g79/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g70/g88/g85/g85/g72/g81/g87/g3/g11/g68/g70/g12/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g85/g72/g71/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g76/g72/g86/g3
/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g87/g88/g71/g72/g86/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g81/g72/g70/g72/g86/g86/g68/g85/g92/g3/g80/g82/g71/g88/g79/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g85/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g86/g17/g3/g11/g48/g82/g71/g88/g79/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g90/g68/g86/g3
/g71/g76/g86/g70/g88/g86/g86/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g49/g40/g40/g55/g54/g15/g3/g48/g82/g71/g88/g79/g72/g3/g20/g21/g15/g3Modulation Principles/g17/g12/g3/g44/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g76/g80/g83/g82/g85/g87/g68/g81/g87/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g87/g88/g71/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3
/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g69/g72/g3/g70/g82/g85/g85/g72/g70/g87/g17/g3/g44/g81/g3/g80/g68/g81/g92/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g15/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g76/g81/g70/g79/g88/g71/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g72/g84/g88/g76/g83/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g80/g68/g76/g81/g87/g68/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g68/g87/g3/g86/g87/g68/g81/g71/g68/g85/g71/g3/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g86/g3/g82/g89/g72/g85/g3/g90/g76/g71/g72/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g76/g72/g86/g17/g3
/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g15/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g76/g81/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g69/g72/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g72/g71/g17/g3/g60/g82/g88/g3
/g70/g68/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g74/g85/g72/g86/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g87/g75/g85/g82/g88/g74/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g72/g84/g88/g76/g83/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g69/g92/g3/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g85/g82/g81/g76/g70/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g86/g3/g82/g85/g3
/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g82/g86/g70/g82/g83/g72/g86/g17/g3/g44/g81/g3/g80/g68/g81/g92/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g15/g3/g70/g68/g79/g76/g69/g85/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g81/g72/g87/g90/g82/g85/g78/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g86/g15/g3/g70/g68/g79/g79/g72/g71/g3/g36/g55/g55/g40/g49/g56/g36/g55/g50/g53/g54/g15/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3
/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g71/g17/g3/g60/g82/g88/g3/g88/g86/g72/g3/g68/g87/g87/g72/g81/g88/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g85/g72/g74/g88/g79/g68/g87/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g17/g3/g50/g81/g79/g92/g3
/g68/g70/g70/g88/g85/g68/g87/g72/g79/g92/g3/g70/g68/g79/g76/g69/g85/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g68/g87/g87/g72/g81/g88/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g69/g72/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g86/g87/g85/g72/g81/g74/g87/g75/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g80/g88/g86/g87/g3/g69/g72/g3
/g85/g72/g74/g88/g79/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g89/g82/g76/g71/g3/g82/g89/g72/g85/g79/g82/g68/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g85/g72/g70/g72/g76/g89/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g17/g3
Q-3. In signal generators, what device is used to regulate the voltage of the output signal? 
/g55/g75/g72/g85/g72/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g80/g68/g81/g92/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g92/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g70/g79/g68/g86/g86/g76/g73/g76/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g88/g86/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3
/g70/g82/g89/g72/g85/g72/g71/g3/g68/g86/g3/g36/g56/g39/g44/g50/g16/g41/g53/g40/g52/g56/g40/g49/g38/g60/g3/g11/g36/g41/g12/g3/g42/g40/g49/g40/g53/g36/g55/g50/g53/g54/g15/g3/g57/g44/g39/g40/g50/g3/g54/g44/g42/g49/g36/g47/g3/g42/g40/g49/g40/g53/g36/g55/g50/g53/g54/g15/g3/g53/g36/g39/g44/g50/g16
/g41/g53/g40/g52/g56/g40/g49/g38/g60/g3/g11/g53/g41/g12/g3/g42/g40/g49/g40/g53/g36/g55/g50/g53/g54/g15/g3/g41/g53/g40/g52/g56/g40/g49/g38/g60/g16/g48/g50/g39/g56/g47/g36/g55/g40/g39/g3/g53/g41/g3/g42/g40/g49/g40/g53/g36/g55/g50/g53/g54/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3
/g86/g83/g72/g70/g76/g68/g79/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g86/g15/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g70/g82/g80/g69/g76/g81/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g86/g17/g3
AUDIO AND VIDEO SIGNAL GENERATORS 
/g36/g56/g39/g44/g50/g3/g54/g44/g42/g49/g36/g47/g3/g42/g40/g49/g40/g53/g36/g55/g50/g53/g54/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g3/g86/g87/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g68/g73/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g68/g88/g71/g76/g82/g3/g72/g84/g88/g76/g83/g80/g72/g81/g87/g17/g3
/g57/g44/g39/g40/g50/g3/g54/g44/g42/g49/g36/g47/g3/g42/g40/g49/g40/g53/g36/g55/g50/g53/g54/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g86/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g81/g70/g79/g88/g71/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g88/g71/g76/g82/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g72/g91/g87/g72/g81/g71/g3/g76/g81/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g73/g3
/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g89/g76/g71/g72/g82/g3/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g73/g76/g72/g85/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g90/g76/g71/g72/g69/g68/g81/g71/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g86/g17/g3/g44/g81/g3/g69/g82/g87/g75/g3/g68/g88/g71/g76/g82/g3
/g68/g81/g71/g3/g89/g76/g71/g72/g82/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g11/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g24/g12/g15/g3/g80/g68/g77/g82/g85/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g76/g81/g70/g79/g88/g71/g72/g3/g68/g3/g51/g50/g58/g40/g53/g3/g54/g56/g51/g51/g47/g60/g15/g3/g68/g81/g3
/g50/g54/g38/g44/g47/g47/g36/g55/g50/g53/g3/g11/g82/g85/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g12/g15/g3/g82/g81/g72/g3/g82/g85/g3/g80/g82/g85/g72/g3/g36/g48/g51/g47/g44/g41/g44/g40/g53/g54/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g81/g3/g50/g56/g55/g51/g56/g55/g3/g38/g50/g49/g55/g53/g50/g47/g17/g3
 
Figure 5-5.—Af and video signal generator block diagram.

===== PDF-side 147 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g28/g3
/g44/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g88/g71/g76/g82/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g89/g76/g71/g72/g82/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g3/g68/g3/g69/g72/g68/g87/g16/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g76/g86/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3
/g80/g76/g91/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g90/g82/g3/g86/g72/g83/g68/g85/g68/g87/g72/g3/g85/g73/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g17/g3/g50/g81/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g73/g76/g91/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g89/g68/g85/g76/g68/g69/g79/g72/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3
/g71/g76/g73/g73/g72/g85/g72/g81/g70/g72/g3/g69/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g76/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g90/g82/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g72/g84/g88/g68/g79/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g85/g72/g71/g3/g68/g88/g71/g76/g82/g3/g82/g85/g3/g89/g76/g71/g72/g82/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g17/g3
/g36/g88/g71/g76/g82/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g82/g73/g87/g72/g81/g3/g76/g81/g70/g79/g88/g71/g72/g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g16/g70/g68/g83/g68/g70/g76/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g11/g85/g70/g12/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g73/g3/g76/g86/g3
/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g79/g92/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g71/g17/g3/g44/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g15/g3/g68/g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g16/g70/g68/g83/g68/g70/g76/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g16/g71/g72/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g76/g81/g74/g3
/g83/g68/g85/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g89/g68/g85/g76/g72/g86/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3either/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g68/g83/g68/g70/g76/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g74/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3
/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g17/g3
/g44/g81/g3/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g15/g3/g75/g82/g90/g72/g89/g72/g85/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g68/g83/g68/g70/g76/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g68/g79/g82/g81/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g82/g73/g87/g72/g81/g3/g70/g75/g82/g86/g72/g81/g3/g68/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3only/g3/g89/g68/g85/g76/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3
/g72/g79/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g80/g72/g87/g75/g82/g71/g3/g76/g86/g3/g79/g76/g80/g76/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g76/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g88/g68/g79/g79/g92/g3
/g81/g72/g70/g72/g86/g86/g68/g85/g92/g3/g87/g82/g3/g70/g82/g89/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g72/g81/g87/g76/g85/g72/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g86/g87/g72/g83/g86/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g88/g68/g79/g79/g92/g3/g68/g70/g70/g82/g80/g83/g79/g76/g86/g75/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3
/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g86/g72/g89/g72/g85/g68/g79/g3/g85/g70/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g86/g15/g3/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3/g70/g82/g85/g85/g72/g86/g83/g82/g81/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g3/g86/g83/g72/g70/g76/g73/g76/g70/g3/g83/g82/g85/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g72/g81/g87/g76/g85/g72/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3
/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g86/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g72/g71/g3/g82/g81/g72/g3/g68/g87/g3/g68/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g87/g82/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g85/g72/g71/g3/g83/g82/g85/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g73/g3
/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g73/g76/g72/g85/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g69/g79/g82/g70/g78/g3/g71/g76/g68/g74/g85/g68/g80/g3/g11/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g24/g12/g3/g88/g86/g88/g68/g79/g79/g92/g3/g70/g82/g81/g86/g76/g86/g87/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g73/g76/g72/g85/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3
/g82/g81/g72/g3/g82/g85/g3/g87/g90/g82/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g73/g76/g72/g85/g86/g15/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g80/g72/g68/g81/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g85/g70/g3/g81/g72/g87/g90/g82/g85/g78/g86/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g76/g81/g68/g79/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3
/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g73/g76/g72/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g82/g73/g87/g72/g81/g3/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g11/g68/g87/g87/g72/g81/g88/g68/g87/g82/g85/g12/g3/g69/g92/g3/g80/g72/g68/g81/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g81/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g87/g85/g68/g81/g86/g73/g82/g85/g80/g72/g85/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g85/g72/g74/g88/g79/g68/g87/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g87/g88/g71/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g17/g3/g36/g3/g70/g82/g80/g80/g82/g81/g79/g92/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g68/g73/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3
/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g79/g3/g54/g51/g49/g3/g68/g88/g71/g76/g82/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g25/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g79/g3/g54/g51/g49/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g3/g83/g85/g82/g74/g85/g68/g80/g80/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3
/g86/g92/g81/g87/g75/g72/g86/g76/g93/g72/g71/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g74/g81/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g3/g68/g3/g86/g87/g68/g69/g79/g72/g15/g3/g79/g82/g90/g16/g71/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g90/g76/g71/g72/g16/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g87/g88/g71/g72/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3
/g82/g89/g72/g85/g3/g68/g3/g20/g16/g43/g93/g3/g87/g82/g3/g20/g17/g22/g16/g48/g43/g93/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g17/g3/g36/g71/g71/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g68/g79/g79/g92/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g72/g84/g88/g76/g83/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g86/g84/g88/g68/g85/g72/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3
/g80/g72/g68/g81/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g86/g90/g72/g83/g87/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g68/g81/g3/g72/g91/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g79/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g85/g72/g80/g82/g87/g72/g79/g92/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g79/g72/g71/g3/g89/g76/g68/g3/g68/g81/g3/g44/g40/g40/g40/g16/g23/g27/g27/g3/g69/g88/g86/g17/g3
/g41/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g83/g72/g85/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g81/g92/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g72/g84/g88/g76/g83/g80/g72/g81/g87/g15/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g86/g75/g82/g88/g79/g71/g3/g68/g79/g90/g68/g92/g86/g3/g85/g72/g73/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g83/g72/g70/g76/g73/g76/g70/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g80/g68/g81/g88/g68/g79/g3
/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g71/g72/g86/g70/g85/g76/g69/g72/g86/g3/g76/g87/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g17/g3
/g3
 
Figure 5-6.—Model SPN audio oscillator.

===== PDF-side 148 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g20/g19/g3
RADIO-FREQUENCY (RF) SIGNAL GENERATORS 
/g44/g81/g3/g68/g71/g71/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g81/g72/g70/g72/g86/g86/g68/g85/g92/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g86/g88/g83/g83/g79/g92/g15/g3/g68/g3/g87/g92/g83/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g85/g73/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g68/g76/g81/g86/g3/g87/g75/g85/g72/g72/g3/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g80/g68/g76/g81/g3
/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g29/g3/g68/g81/g3/g50/g54/g38/g44/g47/g47/g36/g55/g50/g53/g3/g38/g44/g53/g38/g56/g44/g55/g15/g3/g68/g3/g48/g50/g39/g56/g47/g36/g55/g50/g53/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g81/g3/g50/g56/g55/g51/g56/g55/g3/g38/g50/g49/g55/g53/g50/g47/g3/g38/g44/g53/g38/g56/g44/g55/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3
/g80/g82/g71/g88/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g80/g82/g71/g88/g79/g68/g87/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g73/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g17/g3/g44/g81/g3/g68/g71/g71/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g80/g82/g86/g87/g3/g85/g73/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g71/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3
/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g3/g87/g75/g85/g82/g88/g74/g75/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g68/g81/g3/g72/g91/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g79/g3/g86/g82/g88/g85/g70/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g80/g82/g71/g88/g79/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g81/g92/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g85/g72/g71/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g73/g82/g85/g80/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g68/g83/g83/g79/g76/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g17/g3/g48/g72/g87/g68/g79/g3/g86/g75/g76/g72/g79/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g86/g88/g85/g85/g82/g88/g81/g71/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g3/g87/g82/g3/g83/g85/g72/g89/g72/g81/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g86/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3
/g68/g73/g73/g72/g70/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g88/g81/g71/g72/g85/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g17/g3
Q-4. Name the three main sections of a typical rf signal generator. 
/g36/g3/g69/g79/g82/g70/g78/g3/g71/g76/g68/g74/g85/g68/g80/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3/g85/g72/g83/g85/g72/g86/g72/g81/g87/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g85/g73/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g26/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g73/g88/g81/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g86/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g3/g68/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g68/g70/g70/g88/g85/g68/g87/g72/g79/g92/g3/g86/g72/g87/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g68/g87/g3/g68/g81/g92/g3/g83/g82/g76/g81/g87/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3
/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g71/g72/g83/g72/g81/g71/g86/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g76/g72/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g74/g81/g72/g71/g17/g3/g44/g81/g3/g79/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g85/g73/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g70/g82/g81/g86/g76/g86/g87/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g82/g81/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3
/g74/g85/g82/g88/g83/g3/g82/g73/g3/g70/g82/g76/g79/g86/g3/g70/g82/g80/g69/g76/g81/g72/g71/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g68/g3/g89/g68/g85/g76/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g70/g68/g83/g68/g70/g76/g87/g82/g85/g17/g3/g50/g81/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g76/g79/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3
/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g76/g79/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g3/g70/g68/g83/g68/g70/g76/g87/g82/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g3/g68/g81/g3/g76/g81/g71/g88/g70/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g16/g70/g68/g83/g68/g70/g76/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3
/g76/g81/g71/g88/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g16/g70/g68/g83/g68/g70/g76/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g81/g3/g75/g68/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g85/g85/g72/g70/g87/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g85/g72/g86/g82/g81/g68/g81/g87/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g76/g72/g86/g17/g3
/g3
 
Figure 5-7.—Rf signal generator block diagram. 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g73/g88/g81/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g82/g71/g88/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g3/g68/g81/g3/g68/g88/g71/g76/g82/g3/g11/g82/g85/g3/g89/g76/g71/g72/g82/g12/g3/g80/g82/g71/g88/g79/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3
/g86/g88/g83/g72/g85/g76/g80/g83/g82/g86/g72/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g73/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g80/g82/g71/g88/g79/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g80/g68/g92/g3/g69/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g68/g81/g3
/g68/g88/g71/g76/g82/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g72/g85/g80/g72/g71/g3/g44/g49/g55/g40/g53/g49/g36/g47/g3/g48/g50/g39/g56/g47/g36/g55/g44/g50/g49/g17/g3/g44/g87/g3/g80/g68/g92/g3/g68/g79/g86/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g71/g72/g85/g76/g89/g72/g71/g3
/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g68/g81/g3/g72/g91/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g79/g3/g86/g82/g88/g85/g70/g72/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g72/g85/g80/g72/g71/g3/g40/g59/g55/g40/g53/g49/g36/g47/g3/g48/g50/g39/g56/g47/g36/g55/g44/g50/g49/g17/g3/g44/g81/g3/g86/g82/g80/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g15/g3/g72/g76/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3
/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g87/g90/g82/g3/g80/g72/g87/g75/g82/g71/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g80/g82/g71/g88/g79/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g72/g80/g83/g79/g82/g92/g72/g71/g17/g3/g44/g81/g3/g68/g71/g71/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g68/g3/g80/g72/g68/g81/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g71/g76/g86/g68/g69/g79/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g82/g71/g88/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3
/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g89/g68/g76/g79/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g86/g82/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g85/g72/g15/g3/g88/g81/g80/g82/g71/g88/g79/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g85/g72/g71/g17/g3
Q-5. What is the function of the modulating circuit? 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g80/g82/g71/g88/g79/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g71/g72/g83/g72/g81/g71/g86/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g83/g83/g79/g76/g70/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g68/g85/g87/g76/g70/g88/g79/g68/g85/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3
/g80/g82/g71/g88/g79/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g80/g68/g92/g3/g69/g72/g3/g68/g3/g86/g76/g81/g72/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g15/g3/g68/g3/g86/g84/g88/g68/g85/g72/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g15/g3/g82/g85/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g89/g68/g85/g92/g76/g81/g74/g3/g71/g88/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3/g44/g81/g3/g86/g82/g80/g72/g3/g86/g83/g72/g70/g76/g68/g79/g3
/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g15/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g86/g76/g82/g81/g3/g76/g86/g3/g80/g68/g71/g72/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g86/g3/g82/g89/g72/g85/g3/g68/g3/g90/g76/g71/g72/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g85/g72/g83/g72/g87/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g85/g68/g87/g72/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g90/g76/g71/g87/g75/g86/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 149 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g20/g20/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g73/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g88/g86/g88/g68/g79/g79/g92/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g68/g76/g81/g86/g3/g68/g3/g70/g68/g79/g76/g69/g85/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g68/g87/g87/g72/g81/g88/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g81/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3
/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g86/g3/g68/g81/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g83/g72/g85/g80/g76/g87/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g68/g87/g87/g72/g81/g88/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g86/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g87/g82/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g80/g82/g88/g81/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g68/g87/g87/g72/g81/g88/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g80/g68/g71/g72/g3/g88/g83/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3
/g74/g85/g82/g88/g83/g3/g82/g73/g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g73/g82/g85/g80/g3/g68/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g16/g71/g85/g82/g83/g83/g76/g81/g74/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g17/g3
/g44/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g79/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g68/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g70/g68/g79/g76/g69/g85/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g80/g76/g70/g85/g82/g89/g82/g79/g87/g86/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g72/g71/g3/g86/g82/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3
/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g85/g72/g68/g71/g86/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g92/g3/g11/g20/g17/g19/g12/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g72/g68/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g87/g87/g72/g81/g88/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g74/g76/g89/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g72/g91/g68/g70/g87/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g3/g11/g81/g82/g3/g80/g88/g79/g87/g76/g83/g79/g76/g70/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3
/g73/g68/g70/g87/g82/g85/g12/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g76/g81/g3/g80/g76/g70/g85/g82/g89/g82/g79/g87/g86/g17/g3/g44/g73/g3/g68/g81/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g68/g87/g3/g68/g3/g79/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g85/g72/g71/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g87/g87/g72/g81/g88/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3
/g76/g86/g3/g89/g68/g85/g76/g72/g71/g3/g88/g81/g87/g76/g79/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g72/g86/g3/g86/g82/g80/g72/g3/g71/g72/g70/g76/g80/g68/g79/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g3/g79/g72/g86/g86/g3/g87/g75/g68/g81/g3/g20/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g71/g72/g70/g76/g80/g68/g79/g3/g76/g86/g3/g80/g88/g79/g87/g76/g83/g79/g76/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g68/g87/g87/g72/g81/g88/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g85/g72/g68/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g82/g3/g74/g76/g89/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g70/g87/g88/g68/g79/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g76/g81/g3/g80/g76/g70/g85/g82/g89/g82/g79/g87/g86/g17/g3
/g36/g81/g3/g85/g73/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g70/g88/g85/g85/g72/g81/g87/g79/g92/g3/g76/g81/g3/g90/g76/g71/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g49/g68/g89/g92/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g43/g51/g3/g27/g25/g23/g19/g37/g3/g11/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g27/g12/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g43/g51/g3
/g27/g25/g23/g19/g37/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g70/g82/g89/g72/g85/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g24/g19/g19/g3/g78/g76/g79/g82/g75/g72/g85/g87/g93/g3/g87/g82/g3/g24/g20/g21/g3/g80/g72/g74/g68/g75/g72/g85/g87/g93/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3
/g72/g91/g87/g72/g81/g71/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g20/g15/g19/g21/g23/g3/g48/g43/g93/g3/g69/g92/g3/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g68/g71/g68/g83/g87/g72/g85/g86/g17/g3
 
Figure 5-8.—Rf signal generator (HP-model 8640B). 
/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g79/g72/g87/g72/g86/g3/g82/g88/g85/g3/g71/g76/g86/g70/g88/g86/g86/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g73/g82/g79/g79/g82/g90/g76/g81/g74/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g71/g72/g68/g79/g86/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g68/g81/g3/g76/g81/g86/g87/g85/g88/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3
/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3measures/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g178/g87/g75/g72/g3/g41/g53/g40/g52/g56/g40/g49/g38/g60/g3/g38/g50/g56/g49/g55/g40/g53/g17/g3
/g3
FREQUENCY COUNTERS 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g86/g87/g88/g71/g76/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g85/g72/g89/g76/g82/g88/g86/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3 provide/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g88/g86/g72/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g76/g81/g74/g15/g3/g68/g79/g76/g74/g81/g76/g81/g74/g15/g3
/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g85/g82/g88/g69/g79/g72/g86/g75/g82/g82/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g85/g82/g81/g76/g70/g3/g72/g84/g88/g76/g83/g80/g72/g81/g87/g17/g3/g49/g82/g90/g15/g3/g90/g72/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g86/g87/g88/g71/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g41/g53/g40/g52/g56/g40/g49/g38/g60/g3/g38/g50/g56/g49/g55/g40/g53/g15/g3/g68/g81/g3
/g76/g81/g86/g87/g85/g88/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3measures/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g76/g72/g86/g17/g3/g41/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g76/g72/g86/g3/g68/g79/g85/g72/g68/g71/g92/g3/g76/g81/g3
/g72/g91/g76/g86/g87/g72/g81/g70/g72/g17/g3/g36/g81/g3/g72/g91/g68/g80/g83/g79/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3/g87/g92/g83/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g79/g3/g24/g22/g21/g27/g36/g15/g3/g76/g86/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g28/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 150 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g20/g21/g3
 
Figure 5-9.—Model 5328A 500 MHz universal frequency counter. 
GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE FREQUENCY COUNTER 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g73/g82/g79/g79/g82/g90/g76/g81/g74/g3/g71/g72/g86/g70/g85/g76/g83/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g76/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g79/g3/g24/g22/g21/g27/g36/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g82/g81/g79/g92/g17/g3/g50/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g3/g71/g76/g73/g73/g72/g85/g72/g81/g87/g3
/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g84/g88/g72/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g71/g72/g85/g76/g89/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g72/g71/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g86/g3/g68/g89/g68/g76/g79/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g89/g68/g85/g92/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g17/g3/g41/g82/g85/g3
/g73/g88/g85/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g76/g81/g73/g82/g85/g80/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g81/g3/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g76/g85/g3/g88/g86/g72/g86/g15/g3/g85/g72/g73/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g40/g44/g48/g37/g15/g3Test Equipment/g15/g3/g49/g36/g57/g54/g40/g36/g3
/g19/g28/g25/g26/g16/g47/g51/g16/g19/g19/g19/g16/g19/g19/g23/g19/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g79/g3/g24/g22/g21/g27/g36/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g3/g83/g82/g85/g87/g68/g69/g79/g72/g15/g3/g86/g82/g79/g76/g71/g16/g86/g87/g68/g87/g72/g3/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g85/g82/g81/g76/g70/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g17/g3/g44/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g83/g85/g72/g70/g76/g86/g72/g79/g92/g3
/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g15/g3/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g68/g3/g81/g76/g81/g72/g16/g71/g76/g74/g76/g87/g3/g47/g40/g39/g3/g85/g72/g68/g71/g82/g88/g87/g15/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g15/g3/g83/g72/g85/g76/g82/g71/g15/g3/g83/g72/g85/g76/g82/g71/g3/g68/g89/g72/g85/g68/g74/g72/g15/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g15/g3
/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g3/g68/g89/g72/g85/g68/g74/g72/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g3/g82/g73/g3/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g85/g82/g81/g76/g70/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g86/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g68/g79/g86/g82/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g3/g68/g3
/g20/g16/g48/g43/g93/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g20/g19/g16/g48/g43/g93/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g87/g75/g85/g82/g88/g74/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g69/g68/g70/g78/g16/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g37/g49/g38/g17/g3
Q-6. What frequencies are provided through the back-panel BNC? 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g79/g3/g24/g22/g21/g27/g36/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g71/g76/g89/g76/g71/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g87/g82/g3/g73/g82/g88/g85/g3/g80/g68/g77/g82/g85/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g79/g3/g86/g88/g69/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g29/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g68/g76/g81/g3
/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g86/g88/g83/g83/g79/g92/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g73/g68/g70/g72/g3/g69/g88/g86/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3/g36/g71/g71/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g68/g79/g79/g92/g15/g3/g87/g90/g82/g3/g86/g72/g83/g68/g85/g68/g87/g72/g3/g11/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g3
/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g12/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g86/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g86/g17/g3/g40/g68/g70/g75/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g75/g68/g86/g3/g68/g81/g3/g68/g87/g87/g72/g81/g88/g68/g87/g82/g85/g15/g3/g87/g85/g76/g74/g74/g72/g85/g3
/g86/g79/g82/g83/g72/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g15/g3/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g15/g3/g68/g70/g3/g82/g85/g3/g71/g70/g3/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g76/g81/g74/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g81/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g82/g86/g70/g82/g83/g72/g3/g80/g68/g85/g78/g72/g85/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g17/g3/g36/g3/g87/g75/g76/g85/g71/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3
/g76/g86/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g22/g19/g3/g48/g43/g93/g3/g87/g82/g3/g24/g19/g19/g3/g48/g43/g93/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g68/g3/g80/g68/g91/g76/g80/g88/g80/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g24/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g86/g3/g85/g80/g86/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3
/g68/g3/g73/g88/g86/g72/g71/g16/g83/g85/g82/g87/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3
/g41/g85/g82/g81/g87/g16/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g71/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g87/g82/g3/g71/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g88/g81/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g85/g72/g86/g82/g79/g88/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g86/g68/g80/g83/g79/g72/g3
/g85/g68/g87/g72/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g85/g72/g86/g72/g87/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g17/g3/g36/g79/g86/g82/g15/g3/g68/g3/g83/g88/g86/g75/g16/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g3/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g68/g79/g3/g82/g85/g3/g86/g87/g68/g81/g71/g69/g92/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g3/g11/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g68/g83/g83/g79/g76/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g85/g92/g86/g87/g68/g79/g3/g82/g89/g72/g81/g3/g87/g82/g3/g72/g79/g76/g80/g76/g81/g68/g87/g72/g3/g90/g68/g85/g80/g16/g88/g83/g12/g17/g3/g53/g72/g68/g85/g16/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3
/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g74/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g76/g72/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g81/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g68/g81/g3/g72/g91/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g79/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g86/g87/g68/g81/g71/g68/g85/g71/g17/g3/g36/g3
/g71/g72/g87/g68/g70/g75/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g3/g70/g82/g89/g72/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g86/g87/g82/g85/g72/g3/g68/g70/g70/g72/g86/g86/g82/g85/g92/g3/g70/g68/g69/g79/g72/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g86/g17/g3
Controls and Indicators 
/g41/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g86/g3/g24/g16/g20/g19/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g24/g16/g20/g20/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g3/g68/g79/g79/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g16/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g85/g72/g68/g85/g16/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g17/g3/g53/g72/g73/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3
/g87/g68/g69/g79/g72/g86/g3/g24/g16/g20/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g24/g16/g21/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g68/g3/g71/g72/g86/g70/g85/g76/g83/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g81/g88/g80/g69/g72/g85/g72/g71/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g86/g3/g24/g16
/g20/g19/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g24/g16/g20/g20/g15/g3/g85/g72/g86/g83/g72/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g79/g92/g17/g3
/g3

===== PDF-side 151 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g20/g22/g3
 
Figure 5-10.—Front-panel controls and indicators. 
 
 
 
Figure 5-11.—Rear-panel controls and connectors.

===== PDF-side 152 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g20/g23/g3
Table 5-1.—Front Panel Controls and Connectors 
NO. NAME DESCRIPTION /g3
/g20/g3 /g47/g44/g49/g40/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g3/g87/g90/g82/g16/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g54/g55/g37/g60/g3/g82/g85/g3/g50/g51/g40/g53/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3
/g54/g55/g37/g60/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g86/g88/g83/g83/g79/g92/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g86/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g89/g72/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g3/g86/g87/g68/g69/g76/g79/g76/g87/g92/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3
/g69/g68/g86/g72/g3/g87/g82/g3/g80/g68/g76/g81/g87/g68/g76/g81/g3/g68/g3/g70/g82/g81/g86/g87/g68/g81/g87/g3/g87/g72/g80/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g85/g92/g86/g87/g68/g79/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g50/g51/g40/g53/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g86/g88/g83/g83/g79/g76/g72/g86/g3/g81/g82/g85/g80/g68/g79/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3
/g21/g3 /g53/g40/g54/g40/g55/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g86/g72/g71/g15/g3/g85/g72/g86/g72/g87/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g79/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g3/g87/g82/g3/g93/g72/g85/g82/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3
/g83/g85/g72/g86/g86/g72/g71/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g76/g81/g88/g82/g88/g86/g79/g92/g15/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g3/g79/g76/g74/g75/g87/g86/g3/g68/g79/g79/g3/g86/g72/g74/g80/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g47/g40/g39/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g79/g79/g3
/g68/g81/g81/g88/g81/g70/g76/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g47/g40/g39/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g68/g3/g47/g40/g39/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g17/g3
/g41/g56/g49/g38/g55/g44/g50/g49/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g3/g20/g19/g16/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3
/g41/g53/g40/g52/g3/g36/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g68/g87/g3
/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g17/g3
/g41/g53/g40/g52/g3/g38/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g68/g87/g3
/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g38/g17/g3
/g51/g40/g53/g3/g36/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g72/g85/g76/g82/g71/g3/g68/g87/g3
/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g17/g3
/g51/g40/g53/g3/g36/g57/g42/g3/g36/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g80/g68/g78/g72/g3/g68/g3/g83/g72/g85/g76/g82/g71/g3/g68/g89/g72/g85/g68/g74/g72/g3
/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g68/g87/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g81/g88/g80/g69/g72/g85/g3/g82/g73/g3/g83/g72/g85/g76/g82/g71/g86/g3/g82/g89/g72/g85/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g68/g89/g72/g85/g68/g74/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g80/g68/g71/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g53/g40/g54/g50/g47/g56/g55/g44/g50/g49/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3
/g55/g17/g3/g44/g17/g3/g36/g57/g42/g3/g36/g314/g37/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g80/g68/g78/g72/g3/g68/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g3
/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g68/g83/g83/g79/g76/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g81/g88/g80/g69/g72/g85/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g86/g3
/g82/g89/g72/g85/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g89/g72/g85/g68/g74/g72/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g69/g72/g3/g80/g68/g71/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g53/g40/g54/g50/g47/g56/g55/g44/g50/g49/g3
/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g80/g68/g71/g72/g17/g3
/g55/g17/g3/g44/g17/g3/g36/g314/g37/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g80/g68/g78/g72/g3/g68/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g3
/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g86/g87/g68/g85/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g90/g82/g88/g79/g71/g3/g69/g72/g3/g68/g83/g83/g79/g76/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g87/g82/g83/g3
/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g68/g83/g83/g79/g76/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g37/g17/g3
/g22/g3
/g38/g43/g40/g38/g46/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g68/g83/g83/g79/g76/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g20/g19/g16/g48/g43/g93/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g70/g68/g71/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3
/g68/g86/g86/g72/g80/g69/g79/g76/g72/g86/g15/g3/g89/g72/g85/g76/g73/g92/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g54/g36/g48/g51/g47/g40/g3/g53/g36/g55/g40/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g15/g3/g53/g40/g54/g50/g47/g56/g55/g44/g50/g49/g3
/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g53/g40/g54/g40/g55/g17/g3
/g53/g36/g55/g44/g50/g3/g38/g18/g36/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g68/g87/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g38/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g68/g87/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g17/g3
/g53/g36/g55/g44/g50/g3/g37/g18/g36/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g68/g87/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g37/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g68/g87/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g17/g3
/g22/g3
/g38/g82/g81/g87/g76/g81/g88/g72/g71/g3
/g55/g82/g83/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g76/g86/g3/g69/g79/g68/g81/g78/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g75/g68/g86/g3/g81/g82/g3/g73/g88/g81/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g81/g3/g72/g76/g74/g75/g87/g16/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g72/g86/g82/g79/g88/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3
/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g49/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g82/g87/g68/g79/g76/g93/g76/g81/g74/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g89/g72/g85/g68/g74/g76/g81/g74/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g86/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g68/g79/g86/g82/g3
/g71/g72/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g72/g86/g3/g75/g82/g90/g3/g79/g82/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g68/g76/g81/g3/g74/g68/g87/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g82/g83/g72/g81/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g86/g17/g3
/g23/g3/g41/g53/g40/g52/g3
/g53/g40/g54/g50/g47/g56/g55/g44/g50/g49/g15/g3/g49/g3
/g49/g3
/g3
/g20/g3
/g20/g19/g3
/g20/g19/g21/g3
/g20/g19/g22/g3
/g20/g19/g23/g3
/g3/g3/g3/g20/g19/g24/g3/g3
/g3/g3/g3/g20/g19/g25/g3/g3
/g3/g3/g3/g20/g19/g26/g3/g3
/g42/g36/g55/g40/g3/g55/g44/g48/g40/g3
/g11/g86/g72/g70/g82/g81/g71/g86/g12/g3
/g3/g3/g20/g238/g20/g19/g16/g25/g3/g3
/g3/g3/g20/g19/g238/g20/g19/g16/g25/g3/g3/g3
/g20/g19/g19/g238/g20/g19/g16/g25/g3/g3 /g3
/g3/g3/g20/g238/g20/g19/g16/g22/g3/g3
/g3/g3/g3/g3/g3/g3/g3/g3/g17/g19/g20/g3 /g3
/g3/g3/g3/g3/g17/g20/g3 /g3
/g3/g3/g20/g3 /g3 /g3
/g20/g19/g3/g3 /g3
/g53/g40/g54/g50/g47/g56/g55/g44/g50/g49/g3
/g11/g43/g93/g12/g3
/g20/g3/g48/g3
/g20/g19/g19/g3/g78/g3
/g20/g19/g3/g78/g3
/g20/g3/g78/g3
/g20/g19/g19/g3
/g20/g19/g3
/g20/g3
/g17/g20/g3
/g3
/g24/g3/g54/g36/g48/g51/g47/g40/g3 /g53/g36/g55/g40/g3
/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3
/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g89/g68/g85/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g69/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g76/g81/g88/g82/g88/g86/g79/g92/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3
/g68/g83/g83/g85/g82/g91/g76/g80/g68/g87/g72/g79/g92/g3/g21/g3/g80/g76/g79/g79/g76/g86/g72/g70/g82/g81/g71/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g81/g3/g76/g81/g71/g72/g73/g76/g81/g76/g87/g72/g3/g75/g82/g79/g71/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g17/g3
/g25/g3/g24/g19/g19/g3 /g48/g43/g93/g15/g3 /g24/g19/g3/g159/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g38/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g17/g3
/g26/g15/g3/g20/g23/g3 /g50/g56/g55/g51/g56/g55/g3/g48/g36/g53/g46/g40/g53/g3 /g55/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g37/g3/g54/g70/g75/g80/g76/g71/g87/g3/g87/g85/g76/g74/g74/g72/g85/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g72/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g68/g3
/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g85/g76/g74/g74/g72/g85/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g19/g3/g87/g82/g3/g22/g19/g19/g3/g80/g57/g3/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g86/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g79/g72/g86/g86/g3/g87/g75/g68/g81/g3/g21/g19/g3/g81/g68/g81/g82/g86/g72/g70/g82/g81/g71/g86/g3/g71/g72/g79/g68/g92/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 153 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g20/g24/g3
Table 5-1.—Front Panel Controls and Connectors—Continued 
/g27/g15/g3/g20/g22/g3 /g36/g38/g18/g39/g38/g3 /g55/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g70/g3/g82/g85/g3/g71/g70/g3/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g76/g81/g74/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g73/g76/g72/g85/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g3/g11/g49/g82/g17/g3/g20/g27/g12/g3/g76/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g38/g50/g48/g3/g36/g15/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g37/g3/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g76/g81/g74/g3/g76/g86/g3
/g71/g72/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g86/g72/g87/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g73/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g3/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g76/g81/g74/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g17/g3
/g28/g15/g3/g20/g21/g3 /g36/g55/g55/g40/g49/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g72/g86/g3 /g55/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g87/g87/g72/g81/g88/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g87/g88/g71/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g85/g72/g71/g88/g70/g72/g71/g3
/g69/g92/g3/g20/g19/g3/g76/g81/g3/g238/g20/g19/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g20/g19/g19/g3/g76/g81/g3/g238/g20/g19/g19/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g73/g76/g72/g85/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g3/g11/g49/g82/g17/g3
/g20/g27/g12/g3/g76/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g38/g50/g48/g3/g36/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g37/g3/g68/g87/g87/g72/g81/g88/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g3
/g68/g87/g87/g72/g81/g88/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g17/g3
/g20/g19/g15/g3/g20/g20/g3 /g44/g49/g51/g56/g55/g3/g36/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g37/g3 /g55/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g37/g49/g38/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g86/g3/g36/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g37/g17/g3
/g20/g24/g15/g3/g21/g19/g3 /g47/g40/g57/g40/g47/g3/g36/g18/g37/g3 /g55/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g70/g82/g81/g77/g88/g81/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g36/g55/g55/g40/g49/g3/g11/g49/g82/g86/g17/g3/g28/g15/g3/g20/g21/g12/g3/g87/g82/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g68/g87/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g87/g85/g76/g74/g74/g72/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g82/g70/g70/g88/g85/g17/g3/g58/g76/g87/g75/g3/g59/g20/g3/g68/g87/g87/g72/g81/g88/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g3/g76/g86/g3/g89/g68/g85/g76/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g68/g87/g3/g147/g21/g17/g24/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g86/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g238/g20/g19/g19/g3/g68/g87/g3/g147/g21/g24/g19/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g86/g17/g3
/g20/g25/g15/g3/g21/g20/g3 /g38/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g37/g3
/g87/g85/g76/g74/g74/g72/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g79/g76/g74/g75/g87/g86/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g79/g76/g74/g75/g87/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g69/g79/g76/g81/g78/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g86/g86/g82/g70/g76/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g85/g76/g74/g74/g72/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g76/g86/g3/g82/g70/g70/g88/g85/g85/g76/g81/g74/g17/g3
/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g76/g74/g75/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g82/g73/g73/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g76/g86/g3/g69/g72/g79/g82/g90/g3/g87/g85/g76/g74/g74/g72/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g69/g82/g89/g72/g3/g87/g85/g76/g74/g74/g72/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g17/g3
/g20/g26/g15/g3/g20/g28/g3 /g38/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g37/g3
/g54/g47/g50/g51/g40/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g72/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g85/g76/g74/g74/g72/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g81/g3/g72/g76/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g82/g85/g3
/g81/g72/g74/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g86/g79/g82/g83/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g17/g3
/g20/g27/g3 /g38/g50/g48/g3/g36/g18/g54/g40/g51/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g73/g76/g72/g85/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g86/g3/g76/g81/g71/g72/g83/g72/g81/g71/g72/g81/g87/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3
/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g86/g3/g36/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g37/g3/g76/g81/g3/g54/g40/g51/g3/g11/g86/g72/g83/g68/g85/g68/g87/g72/g12/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g38/g50/g48/g3/g36/g3/g11/g70/g82/g80/g80/g82/g81/g3/g36/g12/g3
/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g68/g87/g3/g36/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g79/g86/g82/g3/g68/g83/g83/g79/g76/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g37/g30/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g71/g76/g86/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g37/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g85/g92/g17/g3/g38/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g37/g3/g70/g82/g88/g83/g79/g76/g81/g74/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g87/g87/g72/g81/g88/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g81/g3
/g71/g72/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g3/g86/g72/g87/g87/g76/g81/g74/g17/g3
/g21/g21/g3 /g50/g57/g40/g53/g47/g50/g36/g39/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g73/g79/g68/g86/g75/g3/g82/g81/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g82/g73/g73/g3/g76/g73/g3/g80/g82/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g68/g81/g3/g24/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g83/g83/g79/g76/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g38/g3
/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g17/g3
/g21/g22/g3 /g46/g15/g3/g54/g15/g3/g48/g15/g3/g81/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g43/g93/g3 /g55/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g79/g76/g74/g75/g87/g3/g88/g83/g3/g87/g82/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g83/g83/g85/g82/g83/g85/g76/g68/g87/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g86/g3/g80/g88/g79/g87/g76/g83/g79/g76/g72/g85/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3
/g69/g72/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g68/g78/g72/g81/g17/g3
/g21/g23/g3 /g47/g40/g39/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g3/g81/g76/g81/g72/g16/g71/g76/g74/g76/g87/g3/g47/g40/g39/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g81/g88/g80/g72/g85/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g87/g68/g78/g72/g81/g17/g3
NO. NAME DESCRIPTION /g3
/g21/g24/g3 /g50/g57/g41/g47/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g72/g86/g3/g68/g81/g3/g82/g89/g72/g85/g73/g79/g82/g90/g3/g82/g73/g3/g82/g81/g72/g3/g82/g85/g3/g80/g82/g85/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g82/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g76/g73/g76/g70/g68/g81/g87/g3/g71/g76/g74/g76/g87/g86/g3
/g11/g79/g72/g73/g87/g80/g82/g86/g87/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g70/g76/g80/g68/g79/g3/g83/g82/g76/g81/g87/g12/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g81/g82/g87/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g72/g71/g17/g3
/g21/g25/g3 /g53/g48/g55/g3 /g47/g76/g74/g75/g87/g86/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g85/g72/g80/g82/g87/g72/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3
/g21/g26/g3 /g42/g36/g55/g40/g3 /g47/g76/g74/g75/g87/g86/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g10/g86/g3/g80/g68/g76/g81/g3/g74/g68/g87/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g82/g83/g72/g81/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g83/g85/g82/g74/g85/g72/g86/g86/g17/g3
 
Table 5-2.—Rear-Panel Controls and Connectors 
NO. NAME FUNCTION 
/g20/g3/g57/g50/g47/g55/g36/g42/g40/g3
/g54/g40/g47/g40/g38/g55/g50/g53/g3
/g56/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g3/g20/g20/g24/g3/g82/g85/g3/g21/g22/g19/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3
/g21/g3 /g47/g44/g49/g40/g3/g41/g56/g54/g40/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g85/g72/g84/g88/g76/g85/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g86/g72/g85/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3/g21/g17/g19/g3/g68/g80/g83/g3/g73/g88/g86/g72/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g20/g20/g24/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g3/g82/g85/g3/g20/g17/g19/g3/g68/g80/g83/g3/g73/g88/g86/g72/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3
/g21/g22/g19/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3
/g22/g3 /g44/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g68/g70/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3 /g56/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g68/g70/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g17/g3
/g23/g3 /g36/g53/g48/g3 /g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g3/g76/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g50/g41/g41/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g85/g80/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3
/g76/g86/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g17/g3/g44/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g50/g49/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g85/g80/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3
/g68/g81/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g68/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g69/g72/g76/g81/g74/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g71/g17/g3
/g24/g3 /g40/g59/g55/g3/g50/g54/g38/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g86/g3/g68/g3/g86/g72/g83/g68/g85/g68/g87/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g86/g76/g71/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3
/g69/g68/g86/g72/g17/g3
/g25/g3 /g20/g3/g48/g43/g93/g3/g50/g56/g55/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g20/g19/g3
/g48/g43/g93/g3/g50/g56/g55/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g3/g68/g81/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g79/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g72/g91/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g79/g79/g92/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3
/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g17/g3
/g26/g3/g42/g36/g55/g40/g18/g48/g36/g53/g46/g40/g53/g3
/g50/g56/g55/g3
/g36/g83/g83/g79/g76/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g68/g76/g81/g3/g74/g68/g87/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g82/g83/g72/g81/g17/g3
/g27/g3 /g43/g51/g16/g44/g37/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g81/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g73/g68/g70/g72/g3/g69/g88/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g3/g87/g82/g3/g85/g72/g70/g72/g76/g89/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g74/g85/g68/g80/g80/g76/g81/g74/g3
/g76/g81/g86/g87/g85/g88/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g17/g3
/g3

===== PDF-side 154 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g20/g25/g3
Frequency Measurement 
/g36/g86/g3/g71/g76/g86/g70/g88/g86/g86/g72/g71/g3/g83/g85/g72/g89/g76/g82/g88/g86/g79/g92/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g79/g3/g24/g22/g21/g27/g36/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g70/g68/g83/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g15/g3
/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g83/g72/g85/g76/g82/g71/g3/g11/g76/g81/g89/g72/g85/g86/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g12/g15/g3/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g17/g3/g58/g72/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g86/g87/g68/g85/g87/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g41/g56/g49/g38/g55/g44/g50/g49/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g41/g53/g40/g52/g3/g36/g3/g82/g85/g3/g41/g53/g40/g52/g3/g38/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g15/g3/g73/g15/g3/g69/g92/g3
/g68/g70/g70/g88/g80/g88/g79/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g81/g88/g80/g69/g72/g85/g3/g82/g73/g3/g70/g92/g70/g79/g72/g86/g15/g3/g81/g15/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g82/g70/g70/g88/g85/g86/g3/g82/g89/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g83/g72/g85/g76/g82/g71/g15/g3/g87/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3
/g72/g91/g83/g85/g72/g86/g86/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g29/g3
 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g69/g68/g86/g76/g70/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g72/g79/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g81/g72/g70/g72/g86/g86/g68/g85/g92/g3/g87/g82/g3/g83/g72/g85/g73/g82/g85/g80/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g20/g21/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3
/g44/g49/g51/g56/g55/g3/g36/g48/g51/g47/g44/g41/g44/g40/g53/g18/g55/g53/g44/g42/g42/g40/g53/g3/g72/g86/g86/g72/g81/g87/g76/g68/g79/g79/g92/g3/g70/g82/g81/g71/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g3/g73/g82/g85/g80/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g68/g87/g76/g69/g79/g72/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g79/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g85/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g17/g3/g36/g86/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g20/g21/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g72/g86/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g73/g76/g72/g85/g18/g87/g85/g76/g74/g74/g72/g85/g3
/g70/g82/g85/g85/g72/g86/g83/g82/g81/g71/g86/g3/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g79/g92/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g17/g3
/g3
 
Figure 5-12.—Basic elements of the frequency counter. 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g55/g44/g48/g40/g3/g37/g36/g54/g40/g3/g50/g54/g38/g44/g47/g47/g36/g55/g50/g53/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g3/g20/g19/g16/g48/g43/g93/g3/g87/g72/g80/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g16/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g79/g72/g71/g3/g11/g82/g89/g72/g81/g16/g85/g72/g74/g88/g79/g68/g87/g72/g71/g12/g3/g83/g85/g72/g70/g76/g86/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3
/g70/g85/g92/g86/g87/g68/g79/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g69/g68/g86/g72/g3/g72/g79/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g15/g3/g87/g15/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g72/g85/g76/g89/g72/g71/g17/g3/g39/g40/g38/g36/g39/g40/g3/g39/g44/g57/g44/g39/g40/g53/g54/g3
/g87/g68/g78/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g69/g68/g86/g72/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g68/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g3/g68/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g87/g85/g68/g76/g81/g15/g3/g90/g75/g82/g86/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g76/g86/g3/g89/g68/g85/g76/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g76/g81/g3
/g71/g72/g70/g68/g71/g72/g3/g86/g87/g72/g83/g86/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g79/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g41/g53/g40/g52/g3/g53/g40/g54/g50/g47/g56/g55/g44/g50/g49/g15/g3/g49/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g15/g3/g87/g15/g3/g76/g86/g3
/g71/g72/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g72/g85/g76/g82/g71/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g87/g85/g68/g76/g81/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g75/g72/g68/g85/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g48/g36/g44/g49/g3/g42/g36/g55/g40/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g74/g68/g87/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g82/g83/g72/g81/g72/g71/g15/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g86/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g73/g76/g72/g85/g18/g87/g85/g76/g74/g74/g72/g85/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g83/g68/g86/g86/g3/g87/g75/g85/g82/g88/g74/g75/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g82/g83/g72/g81/g76/g81/g74/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g70/g79/g82/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g68/g76/g81/g3/g74/g68/g87/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g79/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g70/g68/g71/g72/g3/g71/g76/g89/g76/g71/g72/g85/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g68/g76/g81/g3/g74/g68/g87/g72/g3/g73/g79/g76/g83/g16/g73/g79/g82/g83/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g48/g36/g44/g49/g3/g42/g36/g55/g40/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g81/g3/g86/g72/g81/g87/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g39/g40/g38/g36/g39/g40/g3/g38/g50/g56/g49/g55/g44/g49/g42/g3/g36/g54/g54/g40/g48/g37/g47/g44/g40/g54/g3/g11/g39/g38/g36/g86/g12/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g69/g76/g81/g72/g71/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g72/g71/g3/g68/g73/g87/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g74/g68/g87/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g70/g79/g82/g86/g72/g71/g17/g3
/g44/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g41/g53/g40/g52/g56/g40/g49/g38/g60/g3/g53/g40/g54/g50/g47/g56/g55/g44/g50/g49/g15/g3/g49/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g15/g3/g76/g86/g3/g86/g72/g87/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g20/g19
/g3/g25/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g68/g76/g81/g3/g74/g68/g87/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g82/g83/g72/g81/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g20/g3
/g86/g72/g70/g82/g81/g71/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g70/g68/g71/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g68/g86/g86/g72/g80/g69/g79/g76/g72/g86/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g76/g81/g3/g75/g72/g85/g87/g93/g3/g11/g85/g72/g73/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3
/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g20/g19/g15/g3/g41/g53/g40/g52/g56/g40/g49/g38/g60/g3/g53/g40/g54/g50/g47/g56/g55/g44/g50/g49/g15/g3/g49/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g12/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 155 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g20/g26/g3
Period Measurement 
/g51/g72/g85/g76/g82/g71/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g89/g72/g85/g86/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g15/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g71/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g69/g92/g3/g85/g72/g89/g72/g85/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g80/g68/g76/g81/g3/g74/g68/g87/g72/g17/g3/g58/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g41/g56/g49/g38/g55/g44/g50/g49/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g51/g40/g53/g3/g36/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g71/g88/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g89/g72/g85/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g68/g76/g81/g3/g74/g68/g87/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g82/g83/g72/g81/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g70/g68/g71/g72/g3/g71/g76/g89/g76/g71/g72/g85/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g39/g38/g36/g86/g3/g11/g86/g72/g72/g3
/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g20/g22/g12/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g71/g88/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g82/g81/g72/g3/g70/g92/g70/g79/g72/g3/g82/g85/g3/g83/g72/g85/g76/g82/g71/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g41/g56/g49/g38/g55/g44/g50/g49/g3
/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g51/g40/g53/g3/g36/g57/g42/g3/g36/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g71/g72/g70/g68/g71/g72/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g70/g68/g71/g72/g3/g71/g76/g89/g76/g71/g72/g85/g3/g70/g75/g68/g76/g81/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g71/g76/g89/g76/g71/g72/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g73/g76/g72/g85/g18/g87/g85/g76/g74/g74/g72/g85/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g86/g82/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g74/g68/g87/g72/g3/g85/g72/g80/g68/g76/g81/g86/g3/g82/g83/g72/g81/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g71/g72/g70/g68/g71/g72/g3/g86/g87/g72/g83/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g83/g72/g85/g76/g82/g71/g3/g85/g68/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g68/g81/g3
/g68/g3/g86/g76/g81/g74/g79/g72/g3/g83/g72/g85/g76/g82/g71/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g69/g68/g86/g76/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g80/g88/g79/g87/g76/g83/g79/g72/g3/g83/g72/g85/g76/g82/g71/g3/g68/g89/g72/g85/g68/g74/g76/g81/g74/g17/g3/g51/g72/g85/g76/g82/g71/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g83/g72/g85/g76/g82/g71/g3/g68/g89/g72/g85/g68/g74/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g84/g88/g72/g86/g3
/g68/g85/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g76/g81/g70/g85/g72/g68/g86/g72/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g68/g70/g70/g88/g85/g68/g70/g92/g3/g82/g81/g3/g79/g82/g90/g16/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g86/g17/g3
/g3
 
Figure 5-13.—Measuring period. 
Ratio Measurement 
/g51/g79/g68/g70/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g41/g56/g49/g38/g55/g44/g50/g49/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g3/g87/g82/g3/g53/g36/g55/g44/g50/g3/g38/g18/g36/g3/g50/g53/g3/g37/g18/g36/g3/g86/g72/g87/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g3
/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g68/g87/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g38/g3/g82/g85/g3/g37/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g68/g87/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g17/g3/g56/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g68/g80/g72/g3
/g70/g82/g81/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g68/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g20/g22/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g85/g72/g83/g79/g68/g70/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g69/g68/g86/g72/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g68/g3/g86/g72/g70/g82/g81/g71/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g15/g3/g73
/g21/g15/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3
/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g3/g82/g73/g3/g73/g3/g21/g18/g73/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g68/g87/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g73/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g71/g76/g89/g76/g71/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g87/g82/g3/g71/g72/g70/g68/g71/g72/g3/g86/g87/g72/g83/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g68/g80/g72/g3/g80/g68/g81/g81/g72/g85/g3/g68/g86/g3
/g80/g88/g79/g87/g76/g83/g79/g72/g3/g83/g72/g85/g76/g82/g71/g3/g68/g89/g72/g85/g68/g74/g76/g81/g74/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g72/g85/g3/g85/g72/g86/g82/g79/g88/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3
Time Interval Measurement 
/g41/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g20/g23/g3/g76/g79/g79/g88/g86/g87/g85/g68/g87/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g69/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3/g87/g90/g82/g3/g72/g89/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g82/g85/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3
/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g82/g81/g72/g3/g69/g92/g3/g83/g79/g68/g70/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g41/g56/g49/g38/g55/g44/g50/g49/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g55/g17/g44/g17/g36/g57/g42/g3/g36/g37/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g54/g55/g36/g53/g55/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3
/g82/g83/g72/g81/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g68/g76/g81/g3/g74/g68/g87/g72/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g54/g55/g50/g51/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g70/g79/g82/g86/g72/g86/g3/g76/g87/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g54/g55/g36/g53/g55/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g83/g83/g79/g76/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g54/g55/g50/g51/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g83/g83/g79/g76/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g37/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g70/g68/g71/g72/g3/g71/g76/g89/g76/g71/g72/g85/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g11/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g86/g12/g3/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3
/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g72/g79/g68/g83/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g69/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3/g54/g55/g36/g53/g55/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g54/g55/g50/g51/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g86/g15/g3/g68/g86/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g20/g24/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 156 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g20/g27/g3
 
Figure 5-14.—Basic elements of a time interval counter. 
 
 
Figure 5-15.—Clock pulses. 
Resolution 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g85/g72/g86/g82/g79/g88/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g71/g3/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g3/g11/g73/g82/g85/g3
/g72/g91/g68/g80/g83/g79/g72/g15/g3/g68/g3/g20/g19/g16/g48/g43/g93/g3/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g86/g3/g20/g19/g19/g3/g81/g86/g3/g85/g72/g86/g82/g79/g88/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g62/g86/g72/g72/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g20/g19/g15/g3/g41/g53/g40/g52/g56/g40/g49/g38/g60/g3/g53/g40/g54/g50/g47/g56/g55/g44/g50/g49/g15/g3/g49/g3
/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g64/g12/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g73/g76/g72/g85/g15/g3/g80/g68/g76/g81/g3/g74/g68/g87/g72/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g39/g38/g36/g86/g3/g11/g72/g79/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g12/g3/g80/g88/g86/g87/g3
/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g72/g3/g68/g87/g3/g86/g83/g72/g72/g71/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g86/g76/g86/g87/g72/g81/g87/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g30/g3/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g90/g76/g86/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g86/g87/g85/g88/g80/g72/g81/g87/g10/g86/g3/g85/g72/g86/g82/g79/g88/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g90/g82/g88/g79/g71/g3/g69/g72/g3
/g80/g72/g68/g81/g76/g81/g74/g79/g72/g86/g86/g17/g3/g38/g79/g82/g70/g78/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g76/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g20/g15/g3/g20/g19/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g20/g19/g19/g3/g48/g43/g93/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g20/g19/g81/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g76/g72/g86/g15/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g83/g85/g72/g73/g72/g85/g85/g72/g71/g15/g3/g86/g76/g81/g70/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g68/g70/g70/g88/g80/g88/g79/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g15/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g83/g83/g85/g82/g83/g85/g76/g68/g87/g72/g3/g83/g79/g68/g70/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g70/g76/g80/g68/g79/g3/g83/g82/g76/g81/g87/g15/g3/g74/g76/g89/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g3/g85/g72/g68/g71/g82/g88/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3
/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g72/g91/g83/g79/g68/g76/g81/g86/g3/g90/g75/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g89/g72/g81/g87/g76/g82/g81/g68/g79/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g72/g81/g87/g79/g92/g3/g79/g76/g80/g76/g87/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g20/g19/g3/g81/g68/g81/g82/g86/g72/g70/g82/g81/g71/g86/g15/g3
/g68/g3/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g20/g19/g19/g3/g48/g43/g93/g17/g3/g50/g81/g72/g3/g42/g43/g93/g3/g76/g86/g3/g69/g72/g92/g82/g81/g71/g3/g85/g72/g68/g70/g75/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g3/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g21/g19/g19/g3/g48/g43/g93/g3/g90/g82/g88/g79/g71/g3
/g85/g72/g84/g88/g76/g85/g72/g3/g86/g82/g80/g72/g3/g68/g85/g76/g87/g75/g80/g72/g87/g76/g70/g3/g83/g85/g82/g70/g72/g86/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g70/g70/g88/g80/g88/g79/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g39/g38/g36/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g72/g81/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g72/g71/g3
/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g79/g92/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 157 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g20/g28/g3
Time Interval Averaging 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g3/g68/g89/g72/g85/g68/g74/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g84/g88/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g69/g68/g86/g72/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g68/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3±/g20/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g3/g72/g85/g85/g82/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g85/g88/g79/g92/g3/g85/g68/g81/g71/g82/g80/g15/g3
/g76/g87/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g85/g72/g71/g88/g70/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g68/g89/g72/g85/g68/g74/g76/g81/g74/g3/g68/g3/g81/g88/g80/g69/g72/g85/g3/g82/g73/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g86/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g90/g82/g85/g71/g86/g3/g5/g87/g85/g88/g79/g92/g3/g85/g68/g81/g71/g82/g80/g5/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g76/g73/g76/g70/g68/g81/g87/g17/g3/g41/g82/g85/g3
/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g3/g68/g89/g72/g85/g68/g74/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g82/g3/g90/g82/g85/g78/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g3/g80/g88/g86/g87/g3/g11/g20/g12/g3/g69/g72/g3/g85/g72/g83/g72/g87/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g11/g21/g12/g3/g75/g68/g89/g72/g3/g68/g3/g85/g72/g83/g72/g87/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3
/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g86/g92/g81/g70/g75/g85/g82/g81/g82/g88/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g86/g87/g85/g88/g80/g72/g81/g87/g10/g86/g3/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g17/g3/g56/g81/g71/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g71/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g72/g86/g82/g79/g88/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g76/g86/g29/g3
 
/g58/g76/g87/g75/g3/g68/g89/g72/g85/g68/g74/g76/g81/g74/g15/g3/g85/g72/g86/g82/g79/g88/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g79/g76/g80/g76/g87/g72/g71/g3/g82/g81/g79/g92/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g81/g82/g76/g86/g72/g3/g76/g81/g75/g72/g85/g72/g81/g87/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g76/g81/g86/g87/g85/g88/g80/g72/g81/g87/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g24/g22/g21/g27/g36/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g82/g69/g87/g68/g76/g81/g3/g20/g19/g16/g83/g76/g70/g82/g86/g72/g70/g82/g81/g71/g86/g3/g85/g72/g86/g82/g79/g88/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3/g48/g82/g86/g87/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g3/g68/g89/g72/g85/g68/g74/g76/g81/g74/g3/g75/g68/g86/g3/g82/g81/g72/g3
/g86/g72/g89/g72/g85/g72/g3/g79/g76/g80/g76/g87/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g29/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g3/g83/g72/g85/g76/g82/g71/g3/g79/g76/g80/g76/g87/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g76/g81/g76/g80/g88/g80/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g17/g3/g58/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g41/g56/g49/g38/g55/g44/g50/g49/g3
/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g55/g17/g44/g17/g3/g36/g57/g42/g3/g36/g37/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g86/g92/g81/g70/g75/g85/g82/g81/g76/g93/g72/g85/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g85/g72/g80/g82/g89/g72/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g79/g76/g80/g76/g87/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3
/g86/g92/g81/g70/g75/g85/g82/g81/g76/g93/g72/g85/g86/g3/g72/g81/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g24/g22/g21/g27/g36/g3/g87/g82/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g86/g3/g68/g86/g3/g86/g75/g82/g85/g87/g3/g68/g86/g3/g20/g19/g19/g3/g83/g76/g70/g82/g86/g72/g70/g82/g81/g71/g86/g17/g3
/g53/g72/g73/g72/g85/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g82/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g20/g25/g15/g3/g81/g82/g87/g72/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g86/g75/g68/g83/g72/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g68/g3/g85/g72/g83/g72/g87/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g15/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g76/g86/g3
/g68/g86/g92/g81/g70/g75/g85/g82/g81/g82/g88/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g84/g88/g68/g85/g72/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g3/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g68/g83/g83/g79/g76/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g68/g76/g81/g3/g74/g68/g87/g72/g15/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g81/g82/g3
/g86/g92/g81/g70/g75/g85/g82/g81/g76/g93/g72/g85/g86/g15/g3/g68/g81/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g86/g76/g80/g76/g79/g68/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g75/g76/g85/g71/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g73/g82/g85/g80/g3/g85/g72/g86/g88/g79/g87/g86/g17/g3/g54/g76/g81/g70/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g39/g38/g36/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g74/g81/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g3/g68/g87/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g88/g81/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g70/g70/g72/g83/g87/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g86/g75/g82/g85/g87/g72/g85/g3/g71/g88/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g68/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g72/g86/g88/g79/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g86/g3
/g68/g70/g70/g88/g80/g88/g79/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g39/g38/g36/g86/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g69/g72/g3/g76/g81/g3/g72/g85/g85/g82/g85/g15/g3/g68/g86/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g82/g88/g85/g87/g75/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g73/g82/g85/g80/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g79/g72/g80/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g79/g79/g72/g89/g76/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g92/g81/g70/g75/g85/g82/g81/g76/g93/g72/g85/g86/g15/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g74/g81/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g3/g79/g72/g68/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g72/g71/g74/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g82/g70/g70/g88/g85/g3/g90/g75/g76/g79/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g74/g68/g87/g72/g3
/g76/g86/g3/g82/g83/g72/g81/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g92/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g85/g72/g70/g82/g81/g86/g87/g85/g88/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g72/g68/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g72/g71/g74/g72/g86/g15/g3/g80/g68/g78/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g86/g3/g68/g83/g83/g79/g76/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g39/g38/g36/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g68/g80/g72/g3
/g71/g88/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g68/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g15/g3/g68/g86/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g76/g73/g87/g75/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g73/g82/g85/g80/g17/g3/g50/g70/g70/g68/g86/g76/g82/g81/g68/g79/g79/g92/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g3
/g85/g72/g83/g72/g87/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g76/g86/g3/g86/g92/g81/g70/g75/g85/g82/g81/g82/g88/g86/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g79/g3/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g15/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g89/g68/g79/g3/g68/g89/g72/g85/g68/g74/g76/g81/g74/g3/g70/g68/g81/g81/g82/g87/g3/g69/g72/g3/g83/g72/g85/g73/g82/g85/g80/g72/g71/g17/g3
/g3
 
Figure 5-16.—Synchronizer operation with time interval averaging. 
/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g72/g81/g71/g86/g3/g82/g88/g85/g3/g71/g76/g86/g70/g88/g86/g86/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g81/g3/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g85/g82/g81/g76/g70/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g86/g17/g3/g49/g82/g90/g15/g3/g90/g72/g10/g79/g79/g3/g86/g87/g88/g71/g92/g3/g68/g81/g3/g68/g85/g72/g68/g3/g82/g73/g3/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g85/g82/g81/g76/g70/g86/g3
/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g72/g84/g88/g76/g83/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g69/g72/g70/g82/g80/g76/g81/g74/g3/g80/g82/g85/g72/g3/g90/g76/g71/g72/g86/g83/g85/g72/g68/g71/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g76/g80/g83/g82/g85/g87/g68/g81/g87/g3/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3/g71/g68/g92/g178/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g73/g3/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g85/g82/g81/g76/g70/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3

===== PDF-side 158 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g21/g19/g3
/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g86/g17/g3/g36/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g76/g81/g86/g87/g85/g88/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g68/g81/g92/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g70/g76/g68/g81/g3/g90/g75/g82/g3/g90/g82/g85/g78/g86/g3/g82/g81/g3/g71/g76/g74/g76/g87/g68/g79/g3/g72/g84/g88/g76/g83/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g47/g50/g42/g44/g38/g3
/g51/g53/g50/g37/g40/g15/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g81/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g74/g85/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g16/g87/g72/g86/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g17/g3
/g3
INTEGRATED CIRCUIT-TESTING DEVICES 
/g39/g76/g74/g76/g87/g68/g79/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g74/g85/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g85/g72/g79/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g79/g92/g3/g72/g68/g86/g92/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g85/g82/g88/g69/g79/g72/g86/g75/g82/g82/g87/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g69/g72/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g76/g80/g76/g87/g72/g71/g3/g81/g88/g80/g69/g72/g85/g86/g3
/g82/g73/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g70/g82/g80/g69/g76/g81/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g3/g76/g81/g89/g82/g79/g89/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g86/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g87/g90/g82/g16/g86/g87/g68/g87/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g71/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g82/g73/g87/g72/g81/g3
/g85/g72/g73/g72/g85/g85/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g86/g3/g11/g20/g12/g3/g79/g82/g90/g3/g82/g85/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g15/g3/g11/g21/g12/g3/g82/g81/g3/g82/g85/g3/g82/g73/g73/g15/g3/g82/g85/g3/g11/g22/g12/g3/g82/g81/g72/g3/g82/g85/g3/g93/g72/g85/g82/g3/g11/g20/g3/g82/g85/g3/g19/g12/g17/g3
/g50/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g82/g79/g82/g74/g92/g3/g80/g68/g92/g3/g68/g79/g86/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g17/g3/g36/g81/g92/g3/g83/g68/g85/g87/g76/g70/g88/g79/g68/g85/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g74/g85/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g11/g44/g38/g12/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g86/g76/g80/g83/g79/g92/g3
/g70/g82/g80/g83/g68/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g76/g87/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g3/g78/g81/g82/g90/g81/g3/g74/g82/g82/g71/g3/g82/g81/g72/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g47/g50/g42/g44/g38/g3/g51/g53/g50/g37/g40/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g3/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g74/g85/g72/g68/g87/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g3/g76/g81/g3
/g87/g85/g82/g88/g69/g79/g72/g86/g75/g82/g82/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g71/g76/g74/g76/g87/g68/g79/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g74/g85/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g86/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g76/g71/g72/g68/g79/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g3/g75/g68/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g82/g79/g79/g82/g90/g76/g81/g74/g3/g70/g75/g68/g85/g68/g70/g87/g72/g85/g76/g86/g87/g76/g70/g86/g29/g3
• /g44/g87/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g3/g68/g3/g86/g87/g72/g68/g71/g92/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g17/g3
• /g44/g87/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g3/g68/g3/g87/g85/g68/g76/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g86/g17/g3
• /g44/g87/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g3/g68/g81/g3/g82/g83/g72/g81/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g17/g3
• /g44/g87/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g3/g68/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g16/g86/g83/g72/g72/g71/g3/g87/g85/g68/g81/g86/g76/g72/g81/g87/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g17/g3
• /g44/g87/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g75/g68/g89/g72/g3/g82/g89/g72/g85/g16/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g87/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3
• /g44/g87/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g69/g72/g3/g86/g80/g68/g79/g79/g15/g3/g79/g76/g74/g75/g87/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g72/g68/g86/g92/g3/g87/g82/g3/g75/g68/g81/g71/g79/g72/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3/g86/g88/g76/g87/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g74/g85/g72/g68/g87/g79/g92/g3/g86/g76/g80/g83/g79/g76/g73/g92/g3/g92/g82/g88/g85/g3/g87/g85/g82/g88/g69/g79/g72/g86/g75/g82/g82/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g73/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g86/g3/g87/g75/g85/g82/g88/g74/g75/g3
/g71/g76/g74/g76/g87/g68/g79/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g74/g85/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g85/g92/g17/g3/g44/g87/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g76/g80/g80/g72/g71/g76/g68/g87/g72/g79/g92/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g90/g75/g72/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g68/g3/g86/g83/g72/g70/g76/g73/g76/g70/g3/g83/g82/g76/g81/g87/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3
/g79/g82/g90/g15/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g15/g3/g82/g83/g72/g81/g15/g3/g82/g85/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g76/g81/g74/g17/g3/g54/g82/g80/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g86/g3/g75/g68/g89/g72/g3/g68/g3/g73/g72/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g86/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g16/g86/g83/g72/g72/g71/g3/g87/g85/g68/g81/g86/g76/g72/g81/g87/g3
/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g86/g3/g68/g86/g3/g86/g80/g68/g79/g79/g3/g68/g86/g3/g20/g19/g3/g81/g68/g81/g82/g86/g72/g70/g82/g81/g71/g86/g3/g90/g76/g71/g72/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g88/g86/g88/g68/g79/g79/g92/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g79/g92/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g86/g88/g83/g83/g79/g92/g3
/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g3/g69/g72/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g68/g79/g87/g75/g82/g88/g74/g75/g3/g68/g3/g73/g72/g90/g3/g75/g68/g89/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g79/g3/g69/g68/g87/g87/g72/g85/g76/g72/g86/g17/g3
/g48/g82/g86/g87/g3/g44/g38/g3/g73/g68/g76/g79/g88/g85/g72/g86/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g3/g88/g83/g3/g76/g81/g3/g68/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g68/g86/g3/g68/g3/g70/g82/g81/g86/g87/g68/g81/g87/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g3/g82/g85/g3/g79/g82/g90/g3/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g17/g3/g37/g72/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g15/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g86/g3
/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g3/g68/g3/g84/g88/g76/g70/g78/g15/g3/g76/g81/g72/g91/g83/g72/g81/g86/g76/g89/g72/g3/g90/g68/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g79/g82/g70/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g68/g88/g79/g87/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g92/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g68/g79/g86/g82/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g81/g74/g79/g72/g15/g3/g86/g75/g82/g85/g87/g16/g71/g88/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3
/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g75/g68/g85/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g70/g87/g3/g82/g81/g3/g68/g81/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g82/g86/g70/g82/g83/g72/g17/g3/g41/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g20/g26/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g68/g3/g69/g68/g86/g76/g70/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 159 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g21/g20/g3
 
Figure 5-17.—Basic logic probe. 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g72/g71/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g88/g83/g83/g79/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g88/g81/g71/g72/g85/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g82/g85/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g68/g3/g85/g72/g74/g88/g79/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g71/g70/g3
/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g86/g88/g83/g83/g79/g92/g17/g3/g44/g73/g3/g68/g3/g86/g72/g83/g68/g85/g68/g87/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g86/g88/g83/g83/g79/g92/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g74/g85/g82/g88/g81/g71/g3/g83/g82/g76/g81/g87/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g86/g88/g83/g83/g79/g92/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g88/g81/g71/g72/g85/g3
/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g75/g82/g88/g79/g71/g3/g69/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g74/g72/g87/g75/g72/g85/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3/g47/g40/g39/g3/g11/g79/g76/g74/g75/g87/g16/g72/g80/g76/g87/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g71/g76/g82/g71/g72/g12/g3/g81/g72/g68/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g3/g87/g76/g83/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g86/g3/g68/g81/g3/g76/g80/g80/g72/g71/g76/g68/g87/g72/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g86/g87/g68/g87/g72/g3/g72/g91/g76/g86/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g88/g81/g71/g72/g85/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g47/g40/g39/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g3/g68/g81/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g73/g82/g88/g85/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g29/g3/g11/g20/g12/g3/g82/g73/g73/g15/g3/g11/g21/g12/g3/g71/g76/g80/g3
/g11/g68/g69/g82/g88/g87/g3/g82/g81/g72/g16/g75/g68/g79/g73/g3/g69/g85/g76/g79/g79/g76/g68/g81/g70/g72/g12/g15/g3/g11/g22/g12/g3/g69/g85/g76/g74/g75/g87/g3/g11/g73/g88/g79/g79/g3/g69/g85/g76/g79/g79/g76/g68/g81/g70/g72/g12/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g11/g23/g12/g3/g73/g79/g68/g86/g75/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g81/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g82/g73/g73/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g47/g40/g39/g3/g76/g86/g3/g81/g82/g85/g80/g68/g79/g79/g92/g3/g76/g81/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g76/g80/g3/g86/g87/g68/g87/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g80/g88/g86/g87/g3/g69/g72/g3/g71/g85/g76/g89/g72/g81/g3/g87/g82/g3/g82/g81/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g85/g72/g72/g3/g86/g87/g68/g87/g72/g86/g3/g69/g92/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g86/g3/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g3/g87/g76/g83/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3
/g47/g40/g39/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g88/g68/g79/g79/g92/g3/g69/g85/g76/g74/g75/g87/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g86/g3/g68/g69/g82/g89/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g5/g20/g5/g3/g87/g75/g85/g72/g86/g75/g82/g79/g71/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g82/g73/g73/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g86/g3/g69/g72/g79/g82/g90/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g5/g19/g5/g3
/g87/g75/g85/g72/g86/g75/g82/g79/g71/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g47/g40/g39/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g88/g68/g79/g79/g92/g3/g71/g76/g80/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g86/g3/g69/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g5/g20/g5/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g5/g19/g5/g3/g87/g75/g85/g72/g86/g75/g82/g79/g71/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3
/g82/g83/g72/g81/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g86/g17/g3
Q-7. The LED lamps of a typical logic probe are normally in what state? 
/g36/g81/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g68/g81/g68/g79/g92/g86/g76/g86/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g84/g88/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g73/g88/g79/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g84/g88/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g85/g88/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g88/g81/g71/g72/g85/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g68/g87/g3/g76/g87/g86/g3/g81/g82/g85/g80/g68/g79/g3/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g3/g11/g87/g76/g80/g76/g81/g74/g12/g3/g85/g68/g87/g72/g3/g90/g75/g76/g79/g72/g3/g80/g82/g81/g76/g87/g82/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g89/g68/g85/g76/g82/g88/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g86/g15/g3/g86/g88/g70/g75/g3/g68/g86/g3
/g53/g40/g54/g40/g55/g15/g3/g54/g55/g36/g53/g55/g15/g3/g54/g55/g50/g51/g15/g3/g54/g43/g44/g41/g55/g15/g3/g55/g53/g36/g49/g54/g41/g40/g53/g15/g3/g82/g85/g3/g38/g47/g50/g38/g46/g17/g3/g52/g88/g72/g86/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g3/g86/g88/g70/g75/g3/g68/g86/g3/g5/g44/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g34/g5/g3
/g68/g85/g72/g3/g84/g88/g76/g70/g78/g79/g92/g3/g85/g72/g86/g82/g79/g89/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g81/g82/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g76/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g73/g79/g68/g86/g75/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g81/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g82/g73/g73/g15/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g87/g85/g68/g76/g81/g3
/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g76/g87/g92/g3/g76/g86/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g72/g81/g87/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g72/g81/g71/g86/g3/g82/g88/g85/g3/g71/g76/g86/g70/g88/g86/g86/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g81/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g86/g17/g3/g49/g82/g90/g15/g3/g90/g72/g10/g79/g79/g3/g86/g87/g88/g71/g92/g3/g68/g81/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g83/g76/g72/g70/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g85/g82/g81/g76/g70/g86/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3
/g72/g84/g88/g76/g83/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g72/g89/g68/g79/g88/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g74/g85/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g86/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g43/g56/g49/g55/g53/g50/g49/g3/g55/g53/g36/g38/g46/g40/g53/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g17/g3
/g3

===== PDF-side 160 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g21/g21/g3
HUNTRON TRACKER 2000 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g3/g90/g72/g3/g77/g88/g86/g87/g3/g71/g76/g86/g70/g88/g86/g86/g72/g71/g3/g76/g86/g3/g69/g88/g87/g3/g82/g81/g72/g3/g86/g83/g72/g70/g76/g68/g79/g76/g93/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g82/g79/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g76/g86/g82/g79/g68/g87/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g79/g72/g80/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g3/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g17/g3/g36/g81/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g88/g86/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g43/g88/g81/g87/g85/g82/g81/g3/g55/g85/g68/g70/g78/g72/g85/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g17/g3/g44/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g3/g89/g72/g85/g92/g3/g89/g72/g85/g86/g68/g87/g76/g79/g72/g3/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g85/g82/g81/g76/g70/g3
/g87/g85/g82/g88/g69/g79/g72/g86/g75/g82/g82/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g82/g82/g79/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g72/g89/g68/g79/g88/g68/g87/g72/g3/g86/g88/g86/g83/g72/g70/g87/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g18/g82/g85/g3/g79/g82/g70/g68/g87/g72/g3/g71/g72/g73/g72/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g82/g81/g3
/g71/g72/g16/g72/g81/g72/g85/g74/g76/g93/g72/g71/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g70/g68/g85/g71/g86/g3/g84/g88/g76/g70/g78/g79/g92/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g86/g68/g73/g72/g79/g92/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g82/g88/g87/g3/g85/g72/g84/g88/g76/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g72/g80/g82/g89/g68/g79/g3/g82/g73/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g3/g79/g72/g68/g71/g86/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g3
/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g69/g88/g76/g79/g87/g16/g76/g81/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g86/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g87/g82/g3/g89/g76/g86/g88/g68/g79/g79/g92/g3/g68/g81/g68/g79/g92/g93/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g3/g88/g81/g71/g72/g85/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g70/g82/g81/g71/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g17/g3
CAUTION 
Before connecting the Huntron Tracker 2000, you must first secure all power, 
then discharge all high-voltage capacitors. 
PHYSICAL FEATURES 
/g37/g72/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g55/g85/g68/g70/g78/g72/g85/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g3/g75/g68/g86/g3/g86/g82/g3/g80/g68/g81/g92/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g15/g3/g76/g87/g3/g90/g82/g88/g79/g71/g3/g76/g80/g83/g85/g68/g70/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g87/g82/g3/g70/g82/g89/g72/g85/g3/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3
/g90/g76/g87/g75/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g70/g75/g68/g83/g87/g72/g85/g17/g3/g58/g72/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g87/g75/g72/g85/g72/g73/g82/g85/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g70/g72/g81/g87/g85/g68/g87/g72/g3/g82/g88/g85/g3/g71/g76/g86/g70/g88/g86/g86/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g81/g79/g92/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g72/g91/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g79/g79/g92/g3/g68/g70/g70/g72/g86/g86/g76/g69/g79/g72/g3
/g73/g72/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g86/g17/g3/g55/g82/g3/g73/g76/g81/g71/g3/g76/g81/g73/g82/g85/g80/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g81/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g79/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g15/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g86/g75/g82/g88/g79/g71/g3/g85/g72/g89/g76/g72/g90/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g82/g86/g87/g3/g70/g88/g85/g85/g72/g81/g87/g3
/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g80/g68/g81/g88/g68/g79/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g88/g83/g16/g87/g82/g16/g71/g68/g87/g72/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g74/g72/g86/g3/g72/g81/g87/g72/g85/g72/g71/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g3/g69/g72/g76/g81/g74/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g17/g3
Front Panel 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g16/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g11/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g20/g27/g12/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g74/g81/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g86/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g87/g82/g3/g72/g68/g86/g76/g79/g92/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g85/g72/g71/g3/g73/g88/g81/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3/g36/g79/g79/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g86/g75/g3
/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g82/g80/g72/g81/g87/g68/g85/g92/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g75/g68/g89/g72/g3/g79/g76/g74/g75/g87/g16/g72/g80/g76/g87/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g71/g76/g82/g71/g72/g3/g11/g47/g40/g39/g12/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g72/g80/g69/g72/g71/g71/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g80/g3
/g87/g82/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g88/g81/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g15/g3/g69/g92/g3/g79/g76/g74/g75/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g88/g83/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g17/g3/g36/g3/g71/g72/g87/g68/g76/g79/g72/g71/g3/g71/g72/g86/g70/g85/g76/g83/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3/g76/g87/g72/g80/g3/g82/g81/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g3/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g76/g86/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g24/g16/g22/g17/g3
/g3
  
Figure 5-18.—Front Panel.

===== PDF-side 161 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g21/g22/g3
Table 5-3.—Front-Panel Controls and Connectors 
NO. NAME DESCRIPTION 
/g20/g3 /g43/g50/g53/g44/g61/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3 /g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g72/g71/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g17/g3
/g21/g3 /g57/g40/g53/g55/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3 /g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g17/g3
/g22/g3 /g51/g50/g58/g40/g53/g3/g82/g81/g18/g82/g73/g73/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3
/g44/g49/g55/g40/g49/g54/g44/g55/g60/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g3
/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g90/g76/g86/g72/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g88/g85/g81/g72/g71/g3/g82/g81/g17/g3/g41/g88/g85/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3
/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g81/g86/g76/g87/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g76/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3
/g73/g88/g79/g79/g92/g3/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g90/g76/g86/g72/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g88/g85/g81/g72/g71/g3/g82/g73/g73/g17/g3
/g23/g3 /g55/g53/g36/g38/g40/g3/g53/g50/g55/g36/g55/g40/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3 /g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g17/g3
/g24/g3 /g38/g53/g55/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g86/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g17/g3
/g25/g3 /g53/g36/g49/g42/g40/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3 /g55/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g83/g88/g86/g75/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g86/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g3/g82/g81/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g73/g82/g88/g85/g3/g76/g80/g83/g72/g71/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3
/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g86/g29/g3/g47/g50/g58/g15/g3/g48/g40/g39/g44/g56/g48/g3/g20/g15/g3/g48/g40/g39/g44/g56/g48/g3/g21/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g43/g44/g42/g43/g17/g3
/g26/g3 /g36/g56/g55/g50/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g83/g88/g86/g75/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g76/g81/g76/g87/g76/g68/g87/g72/g86/g3/g68/g88/g87/g82/g80/g68/g87/g76/g70/g3/g86/g70/g68/g81/g81/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g82/g88/g85/g3
/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g86/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g79/g82/g90/g3/g87/g82/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g86/g83/g72/g72/g71/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g70/g68/g81/g81/g76/g81/g74/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g53/g36/g55/g40/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g11/g76/g87/g72/g80/g3/g20/g23/g12/g3
/g27/g3 /g38/g43/g36/g49/g49/g40/g47/g3/g36/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g83/g88/g86/g75/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g86/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g72/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g38/g53/g55/g17/g3
/g28/g3 /g38/g43/g36/g49/g49/g40/g47/g3/g36/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g83/g79/g88/g74/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g3/g73/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g79/g72/g68/g71/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g3/g76/g86/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g17/g3
/g36/g79/g79/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g79/g72/g68/g71/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g68/g70/g70/g72/g83/g87/g3/g86/g87/g68/g81/g71/g68/g85/g71/g3/g69/g68/g81/g68/g81/g68/g3/g83/g79/g88/g74/g86/g17/g3
/g20/g19/g3/g36/g47/g55/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3 /g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g83/g88/g86/g75/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g3/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g79/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g87/g72/g3/g69/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3
/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g37/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g86/g83/g72/g72/g71/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g53/g36/g55/g40/g3
/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g11/g76/g87/g72/g80/g3/g20/g23/g12/g17/g3
/g20/g20/g3/g38/g50/g48/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g83/g79/g88/g74/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g79/g72/g68/g71/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g86/g87/g85/g88/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g70/g82/g80/g80/g82/g81/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g80/g82/g81/g3
/g85/g72/g73/g72/g85/g72/g81/g70/g72/g3/g83/g82/g76/g81/g87/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g37/g17/g3
/g20/g21/g3/g38/g43/g36/g49/g49/g40/g47/g3/g37/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g83/g88/g86/g75/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g86/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g37/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g72/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g38/g53/g55/g17/g3
/g20/g22/g3/g38/g43/g36/g49/g49/g40/g47/g3/g37/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g83/g79/g88/g74/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g3/g73/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g79/g72/g68/g71/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g37/g3/g76/g86/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g17/g3
/g20/g23/g3/g53/g36/g55/g40/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g68/g79/g87/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g68/g81/g71/g18/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g86/g70/g68/g81/g81/g76/g81/g74/g17/g3
/g20/g24/g3/g42/g20/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g42/g21/g3/g83/g79/g88/g74/g86/g3 /g55/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g79/g72/g68/g71/g86/g17/g3
/g20/g25/g3/g58/g44/g39/g55/g43/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g88/g87/g92/g3/g70/g92/g70/g79/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g17/g3
/g20/g26/g3/g47/g40/g57/g40/g47/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3 /g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g87/g88/g71/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g79/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g17/g3
/g20/g27/g3/g51/g56/g47/g54/g40/g3/g42/g40/g49/g40/g53/g36/g55/g50/g53/g3
/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g83/g88/g86/g75/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3
/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g29/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g11/g14/g12/g15/g3/g81/g72/g74/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g11/g177/g12/g3/g82/g85/g3/g51/g56/g47/g54/g40/g18/g39/g38/g17/g3
/g20/g28/g3/g41/g53/g40/g52/g56/g40/g49/g38/g60/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3 /g55/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g83/g88/g86/g75/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g3/g82/g81/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g75/g85/g72/g72/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3
/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g76/g72/g86/g29/g3/g24/g19/g18/g25/g19/g3/g43/g93/g15/g3/g23/g19/g19/g3/g43/g93/g15/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g3/g43/g93/g17/g3
/g3
Cathode-Ray Tube (CRT) Display 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3/g11/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g20/g28/g12/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g89/g76/g72/g90/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g3/g88/g81/g71/g72/g85/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3
/g75/g68/g86/g3/g68/g3/g74/g85/g68/g87/g76/g70/g88/g79/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g86/g76/g86/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g68/g91/g72/g86/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g3/g68/g91/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g85/g72/g83/g85/g72/g86/g72/g81/g87/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3
/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g68/g91/g76/g86/g3/g69/g72/g76/g81/g74/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g85/g72/g83/g85/g72/g86/g72/g81/g87/g3/g70/g88/g85/g85/g72/g81/g87/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g68/g91/g72/g86/g3/g71/g76/g89/g76/g71/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3/g76/g81/g87/g82/g3/g73/g82/g88/g85/g3/g84/g88/g68/g71/g85/g68/g81/g87/g86/g17/g3
/g40/g68/g70/g75/g3/g84/g88/g68/g71/g85/g68/g81/g87/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g86/g3/g68/g3/g71/g76/g73/g73/g72/g85/g72/g81/g87/g3/g83/g82/g85/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g3/g88/g81/g71/g72/g85/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 162 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g21/g23/g3
 
Figure 5-19.—CRT display. 
/g3
• /g52/g88/g68/g71/g85/g68/g81/g87/g3/g20/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g86/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g70/g88/g85/g85/g72/g81/g87/g17/g3
• /g52/g88/g68/g71/g85/g68/g81/g87/g3/g21/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g86/g3/g81/g72/g74/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g70/g88/g85/g85/g72/g81/g87/g17/g3
• /g52/g88/g68/g71/g85/g68/g81/g87/g3/g22/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g86/g3/g81/g72/g74/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g81/g72/g74/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g70/g88/g85/g85/g72/g81/g87/g17/g3
• /g52/g88/g68/g71/g85/g68/g81/g87/g3/g23/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g86/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g81/g72/g74/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g70/g88/g85/g85/g72/g81/g87/g17/g3
Q-8. On the CRT display, what information is displayed in Quadrant 4? 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g3/g68/g91/g76/g86/g3/g11/g86/g72/g72/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g20/g28/g12/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g76/g89/g76/g71/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g87/g82/g3/g72/g76/g74/g75/g87/g3/g72/g84/g88/g68/g79/g3/g71/g76/g89/g76/g86/g76/g82/g81/g86/g15/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g70/g76/g68/g81/g3/g87/g82/g3
/g72/g86/g87/g76/g80/g68/g87/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g68/g87/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g74/g72/g86/g3/g82/g70/g70/g88/g85/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g3/g69/g72/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g72/g71/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3
/g68/g86/g86/g82/g70/g76/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g68/g83/g83/g85/g82/g91/g76/g80/g68/g87/g72/g3/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g3/g86/g72/g81/g86/g76/g87/g76/g89/g76/g87/g76/g72/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g68/g85/g72/g29/g3
• /g43/g76/g74/g75/g3/g32/g3/g20/g24/g17/g19/g3/g57/g82/g79/g87/g86/g18/g39/g76/g89/g17/g3
• /g48/g72/g71/g76/g88/g80/g3/g21/g3/g32/g3/g24/g17/g19/g3/g57/g82/g79/g87/g86/g18/g39/g76/g89/g17/g3
• /g48/g72/g71/g76/g88/g80/g3/g20/g3/g32/g3/g22/g17/g26/g24/g3/g57/g82/g79/g87/g86/g18/g39/g76/g89/g17/g3
• /g47/g82/g90/g3/g32/g3/g21/g17/g24/g3/g57/g82/g79/g87/g86/g18/g39/g76/g89/g17/g3
Back Panel 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g69/g68/g70/g78/g3/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g11/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g21/g19/g12/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g85/g72/g72/g3/g68/g71/g71/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g68/g79/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g86/g17/g3/g50/g81/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g70/g70/g72/g86/g86/g82/g85/g92/g3
/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g11/g36/g38/g38/g12/g15/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g43/g88/g81/g87/g85/g82/g81/g3/g54/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g72/g85/g3/g48/g82/g71/g72/g79/g3
/g43/g54/g53/g23/g20/g19/g17/g3/g49/g72/g91/g87/g15/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g70/g82/g85/g71/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g72/g84/g88/g76/g85/g72/g71/g3/g68/g70/g3/g79/g76/g81/g72/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g88/g81/g76/g87/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g79/g68/g86/g87/g3/g76/g87/g72/g80/g3/g73/g82/g88/g81/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g69/g68/g70/g78/g3/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g41/g50/g38/g56/g54/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g30/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g82/g70/g88/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g16
/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g38/g53/g55/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 163 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g21/g24/g3
 
Figure 5-20.—Back panel. 
OPERATION 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g73/g82/g79/g79/g82/g90/g76/g81/g74/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g3/g72/g91/g83/g79/g68/g76/g81/g3/g75/g82/g90/g3/g87/g82/g3/g88/g86/g72/g3/g80/g82/g86/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g16/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g69/g68/g70/g78/g16/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g86/g17/g3
/g40/g68/g70/g75/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g75/g68/g86/g3/g68/g79/g85/g72/g68/g71/g92/g3/g69/g72/g72/g81/g3/g69/g85/g76/g72/g73/g79/g92/g3/g71/g72/g86/g70/g85/g76/g69/g72/g71/g17/g3/g55/g82/g3/g85/g72/g89/g76/g72/g90/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g81/g73/g82/g85/g80/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g85/g72/g73/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3
/g24/g16/g20/g27/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g24/g16/g22/g17/g3
Initial Setup 
/g41/g76/g85/g86/g87/g15/g3/g87/g88/g85/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g51/g50/g58/g40/g53/g18/g44/g49/g55/g40/g49/g54/g44/g55/g60/g3/g78/g81/g82/g69/g3/g79/g82/g70/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g3/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g90/g76/g86/g72/g15/g3/g82/g81/g15/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3
/g56/g81/g71/g72/g85/g3/g81/g82/g85/g80/g68/g79/g3/g70/g82/g81/g71/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g70/g82/g80/g72/g3/g82/g81/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g82/g79/g79/g82/g90/g76/g81/g74/g3/g47/g40/g39/g86/g3/g76/g79/g79/g88/g80/g76/g81/g68/g87/g72/g71/g29/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g15/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g15/g3
/g24/g19/g18/g25/g19/g3/g43/g93/g15/g3/g79/g82/g90/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g18/g39/g38/g17/g3
/g41/g82/g70/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g3/g76/g86/g3/g89/g72/g85/g92/g3/g70/g85/g76/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g70/g76/g68/g81/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g87/g82/g3/g83/g85/g82/g83/g72/g85/g79/g92/g3/g68/g81/g68/g79/g92/g93/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g69/g72/g76/g81/g74/g3
/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g72/g71/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g82/g81/g72/g3/g69/g92/g3/g73/g76/g85/g86/g87/g3/g87/g88/g85/g81/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g44/g49/g55/g40/g49/g54/g44/g55/g60/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g3/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g3/g70/g82/g80/g73/g82/g85/g87/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g72/g92/g72/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g81/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g41/g50/g38/g56/g54/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g11/g69/g68/g70/g78/g3/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g12/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g81/g68/g85/g85/g82/g90/g72/g86/g87/g3/g83/g82/g86/g86/g76/g69/g79/g72/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g17/g3
/g36/g79/g76/g74/g81/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g75/g72/g79/g83/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g72/g15/g3/g71/g88/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g85/g82/g88/g69/g79/g72/g86/g75/g82/g82/g87/g76/g81/g74/g15/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g84/g88/g68/g71/g85/g68/g81/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g85/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g71/g88/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g68/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g74/g72/g17/g3/g58/g76/g87/g75/g3/g68/g3/g86/g75/g82/g85/g87/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g68/g83/g83/g79/g76/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g3/g11/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g3/g68/g3/g70/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g69/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3/g77/g68/g70/g78/g3/g36/g3
/g68/g81/g71/g3/g38/g50/g48/g12/g15/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g55/g53/g36/g38/g40/g3/g53/g50/g55/g36/g55/g40/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g88/g81/g87/g76/g79/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g86/g3/g70/g79/g82/g86/g72/g3/g87/g82/g3/g83/g68/g85/g68/g79/g79/g72/g79/g3/g68/g86/g3/g83/g82/g86/g86/g76/g69/g79/g72/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g68/g91/g76/g86/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g81/g15/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g43/g50/g53/g44/g61/g3/g11/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g12/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g88/g81/g87/g76/g79/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g86/g3/g70/g79/g82/g86/g72/g3/g87/g82/g3/g72/g89/g72/g81/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g68/g91/g76/g86/g3/g68/g86/g3/g83/g82/g86/g86/g76/g69/g79/g72/g17/g3
Q-9. When aligning the trace with a short applied to channel A, which control should be adjusted to 
bring the trace parallel to the vertical axis? 
/g58/g76/g87/g75/g3/g68/g81/g3/g50/g83/g72/g81/g3/g68/g83/g83/g79/g76/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g3/g11/g81/g82/g87/g75/g76/g81/g74/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g36/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g38/g50/g48/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g83/g79/g88/g74/g12/g15/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g57/g40/g53/g55/g3
/g11/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g12/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g88/g81/g87/g76/g79/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g86/g3/g70/g79/g82/g86/g72/g3/g87/g82/g3/g72/g89/g72/g81/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g3/g68/g91/g76/g86/g3/g68/g86/g3/g83/g82/g86/g86/g76/g69/g79/g72/g17/g3/g50/g81/g70/g72/g3
/g86/g72/g87/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g80/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g86/g75/g82/g88/g79/g71/g3/g81/g82/g87/g3/g81/g72/g72/g71/g3/g85/g72/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g71/g88/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g10/g86/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3/g43/g82/g90/g72/g89/g72/g85/g15/g3/g85/g72/g80/g72/g80/g69/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3
/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g15/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g83/g85/g82/g70/g72/g86/g86/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g81/g72/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g85/g72/g83/g72/g68/g87/g72/g71/g17/g3
Range Selection 
/g41/g82/g88/g85/g3/g76/g80/g83/g72/g71/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g86/g3/g11/g47/g50/g58/g15/g3/g48/g40/g39/g3/g20/g15/g3/g48/g40/g39/g3/g21/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g43/g44/g42/g43/g12/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g55/g85/g68/g70/g78/g72/g85/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g86/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g69/g72/g70/g82/g80/g72/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g83/g83/g85/g82/g83/g85/g76/g68/g87/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g16/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g3/g76/g86/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g86/g72/g71/g17/g3/g55/g82/g3/g82/g69/g87/g68/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g82/g86/g87/g3
/g88/g86/g72/g73/g88/g79/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g85/g82/g88/g69/g79/g72/g86/g75/g82/g82/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g68/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g15/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g86/g75/g82/g88/g79/g71/g3/g68/g79/g90/g68/g92/g86/g3/g86/g87/g68/g85/g87/g3/g69/g92/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g81/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g90/g82/g3/g80/g72/g71/g76/g88/g80/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g86/g3/g11/g80/g72/g71/g76/g88/g80/g3/g20/g3/g82/g85/g3/g80/g72/g71/g76/g88/g80/g3/g21/g12/g17/g3/g44/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3/g68/g83/g83/g72/g68/g85/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g68/g81/g3/g82/g83/g72/g81/g3/g11/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g12/g15/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g81/g72/g91/g87/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g72/g85/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g86/g75/g82/g88/g79/g71/g3/g69/g72/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g74/g72/g87/g3/g68/g3/g80/g82/g85/g72/g3/g68/g70/g70/g88/g85/g68/g87/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g68/g81/g68/g79/g92/g86/g76/g86/g17/g3/g44/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3
/g68/g83/g83/g72/g68/g85/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g68/g3/g86/g75/g82/g85/g87/g3/g11/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g12/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g81/g72/g91/g87/g3/g79/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g86/g75/g82/g88/g79/g71/g3/g69/g72/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 164 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g21/g25/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g36/g56/g55/g50/g3/g73/g72/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g88/g87/g82/g80/g68/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g79/g92/g3/g86/g70/g68/g81/g3/g87/g75/g85/g82/g88/g74/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g82/g88/g85/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g86/g3
/g68/g87/g3/g68/g3/g86/g83/g72/g72/g71/g3/g86/g72/g87/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g70/g76/g68/g81/g3/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g53/g36/g55/g40/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g78/g81/g82/g69/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g78/g72/g72/g83/g3/g75/g76/g86/g3/g82/g85/g3/g75/g72/g85/g3
/g75/g68/g81/g71/g86/g3/g73/g85/g72/g72/g3/g87/g82/g3/g75/g82/g79/g71/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g79/g72/g68/g71/g86/g3/g90/g75/g76/g79/g72/g3/g86/g87/g76/g79/g79/g3/g69/g72/g76/g81/g74/g3/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g87/g82/g3/g82/g69/g86/g72/g85/g89/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g3/g88/g81/g71/g72/g85/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3
/g68/g81/g68/g79/g92/g86/g76/g86/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g43/g44/g42/g43/g3/g47/g50/g38/g46/g50/g56/g55/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g70/g76/g68/g81/g15/g3/g83/g85/g72/g89/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g73/g88/g81/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g76/g81/g74/g3/g76/g81/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g43/g44/g42/g43/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g76/g81/g3/g72/g76/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g68/g81/g88/g68/g79/g3/g82/g85/g3/g36/g56/g55/g50/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g17/g3
Channel Selection 
/g60/g82/g88/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g90/g82/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g86/g3/g69/g92/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g3/g11/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g36/g3/g77/g68/g70/g78/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g38/g50/g48/g12/g3
/g82/g85/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g37/g3/g11/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g37/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g38/g50/g48/g3/g77/g68/g70/g78/g86/g12/g3/g83/g88/g86/g75/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g3/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g68/g3
/g86/g76/g81/g74/g79/g72/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g15/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g86/g75/g82/g88/g79/g71/g3/g83/g79/g88/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g72/g71/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g85/g85/g72/g86/g83/g82/g81/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g77/g68/g70/g78/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g83/g79/g88/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g69/g79/g68/g70/g78/g3
/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g79/g72/g68/g71/g3/g76/g81/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g80/g82/g81/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g77/g68/g70/g78/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g68/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g15/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g86/g75/g82/g88/g79/g71/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g72/g71/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g68/g79/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g69/g79/g68/g70/g78/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g81/g72/g74/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g68/g79/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g3/g88/g81/g71/g72/g85/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g17/g3/g41/g82/g79/g79/g82/g90/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3
/g83/g85/g82/g70/g72/g71/g88/g85/g72/g3/g72/g89/g72/g85/g92/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g72/g81/g86/g88/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g3/g88/g81/g71/g72/g85/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g69/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g70/g82/g85/g85/g72/g70/g87/g3/g84/g88/g68/g71/g85/g68/g81/g87/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g36/g47/g55/g3/g11/g68/g79/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g87/g72/g12/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g86/g3/g68/g88/g87/g82/g80/g68/g87/g76/g70/g3/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g76/g81/g74/g3/g69/g68/g70/g78/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g73/g82/g85/g87/g75/g3/g69/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3
/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g37/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g86/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g87/g82/g3/g72/g68/g86/g76/g79/g92/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g68/g85/g72/g3/g87/g90/g82/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g68/g80/g72/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g83/g82/g76/g81/g87/g86/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g90/g82/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3
/g69/g82/g68/g85/g71/g86/g17/g3/g60/g82/g88/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g36/g47/g55/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g3/g69/g92/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g36/g47/g55/g3/g83/g88/g86/g75/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g3/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g85/g68/g87/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3
/g86/g90/g76/g87/g70/g75/g76/g81/g74/g3/g69/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g86/g3/g36/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g37/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g89/g68/g85/g76/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g53/g36/g55/g40/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g78/g81/g82/g69/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g3
/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g17/g3/g60/g82/g88/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g73/g76/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g36/g47/g55/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g3/g73/g72/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g89/g72/g85/g92/g3/g88/g86/g72/g73/g88/g79/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g68/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g68/g3/g78/g81/g82/g90/g81/g3/g74/g82/g82/g71/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g3
/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g68/g80/g72/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g88/g81/g78/g81/g82/g90/g81/g3/g84/g88/g68/g79/g76/g87/g92/g17/g3
/g41/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g21/g20/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g68/g3/g87/g92/g83/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g90/g68/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g3/g78/g81/g82/g90/g81/g3/g74/g82/g82/g71/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g69/g82/g68/g85/g71/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g3/g69/g82/g68/g85/g71/g3
/g88/g81/g71/g72/g85/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g88/g83/g83/g79/g76/g72/g71/g3/g70/g82/g80/g80/g82/g81/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g79/g72/g68/g71/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g90/g82/g3/g72/g84/g88/g76/g89/g68/g79/g72/g81/g87/g3/g83/g82/g76/g81/g87/g86/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g69/g82/g68/g85/g71/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g80/g82/g81/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g77/g68/g70/g78/g17/g3/g49/g82/g87/g72/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g69/g79/g68/g70/g78/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g81/g82/g90/g3/g69/g72/g76/g81/g74/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g37/g3/g77/g68/g70/g78/g3/g85/g68/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3
/g87/g75/g68/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g50/g48/g3/g77/g68/g70/g78/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g70/g76/g68/g81/g3/g88/g86/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g36/g47/g55/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g36/g56/g55/g50/g3/g73/g72/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g86/g3/g87/g82/g74/g72/g87/g75/g72/g85/g15/g3/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g76/g86/g3
/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g72/g71/g3/g69/g72/g73/g82/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g74/g72/g17/g3/g41/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g21/g21/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g74/g72/g86/g17/g3
/g3
 
Figure 5-21.—ALT (alternate) mode setup.

===== PDF-side 165 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g21/g26/g3
 
Figure 5-22.—AUTO/ALT sequence. 
Frequency Selection 
/g55/g75/g72/g85/g72/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g85/g72/g72/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g76/g72/g86/g3/g11/g24/g19/g18/g25/g19/g3/g43/g93/g15/g3/g23/g19/g19/g3/g43/g93/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g3/g43/g93/g12/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g81/g3
/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g83/g83/g85/g82/g83/g85/g76/g68/g87/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g16/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g83/g88/g86/g75/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g17/g3/g39/g88/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g80/g82/g86/g87/g3/g87/g85/g82/g88/g69/g79/g72/g86/g75/g82/g82/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g72/g89/g82/g79/g88/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g24/g19/g18/g25/g19/g3/g43/g93/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g69/g72/g86/g87/g3/g87/g82/g3/g86/g87/g68/g85/g87/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g23/g19/g19/g3/g43/g93/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g3/g75/g93/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g76/g72/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g79/g79/g92/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3
/g89/g76/g72/g90/g3/g86/g80/g68/g79/g79/g3/g68/g80/g82/g88/g81/g87/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g70/g68/g83/g68/g70/g76/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g82/g85/g3/g79/g68/g85/g74/g72/g3/g68/g80/g82/g88/g81/g87/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g76/g81/g71/g88/g70/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g17/g3
Pulse Generator 
/g36/g3/g69/g88/g76/g79/g87/g16/g76/g81/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g79/g86/g82/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g71/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g55/g85/g68/g70/g78/g72/g85/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g17/g3/g44/g87/g3/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g70/g76/g68/g81/g3/g87/g82/g3/g71/g82/g3
/g71/g92/g81/g68/g80/g76/g70/g15/g3/g76/g81/g16/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g73/g3/g70/g72/g85/g87/g68/g76/g81/g3/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g76/g85/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g17/g3/g44/g81/g3/g68/g71/g71/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g87/g82/g3/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g72/g71/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g69/g79/g68/g70/g78/g3
/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g86/g15/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g72/g71/g3
/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g82/g81/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g69/g79/g88/g72/g3/g80/g76/g70/g85/g82/g3/g70/g79/g76/g83/g86/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g71/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g75/g68/g86/g3/g87/g90/g82/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g86/g3/g11/g42/g20/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g42/g21/g3
/g77/g68/g70/g78/g86/g12/g3/g86/g82/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g85/g72/g72/g3/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g86/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g68/g79/g86/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g36/g47/g55/g3/g11/g68/g79/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g87/g72/g12/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g17/g3/g41/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g21/g22/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g68/g3/g90/g68/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3
/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g36/g47/g55/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g3/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g17/g3
 
Figure 5-23.—Pulse generator comparison mode. 
/g55/g75/g72/g85/g72/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g68/g3/g89/g68/g85/g76/g72/g87/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g73/g82/g85/g80/g86/g3/g68/g89/g68/g76/g79/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g86/g15/g3/g68/g86/g3
/g86/g75/g82/g90/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g21/g23/g17/g3/g41/g76/g85/g86/g87/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g70/g76/g68/g81/g3/g80/g88/g86/g87/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g51/g56/g47/g54/g40/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g3/g82/g85/g3/g39/g38/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g3/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g51/g56/g47/g54/g40/g18/g39/g38/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g3/g79/g82/g70/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g3/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g17/g3/g44/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g51/g56/g47/g54/g40/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g51/g56/g47/g54/g40/g18/g39/g38/g3/g47/g40/g39/g3/g73/g79/g68/g86/g75/g72/g86/g3/g68/g87/g3/g68/g3/g86/g79/g82/g90/g3
/g85/g68/g87/g72/g17/g3/g58/g75/g76/g79/g72/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g39/g38/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g15/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g47/g40/g39/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g69/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g76/g81/g88/g82/g88/g86/g79/g92/g3/g82/g81/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 166 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g21/g27/g3
/g3
 
Figure 5-24.—Pulse generator selector chart. 
/g49/g72/g91/g87/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g70/g76/g68/g81/g3/g81/g72/g72/g71/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g79/g68/g85/g76/g87/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g85/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g11/g14/g12/g3/g68/g81/g71/g18/g82/g85/g3
/g81/g72/g74/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g11−/g12/g3/g83/g88/g86/g75/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g86/g17/g3/g36/g79/g79/g3/g87/g75/g85/g72/g72/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g86/g3/g82/g81/g79/g92/g3/g73/g88/g81/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g68/g3/g83/g88/g86/g75/g16/g82/g81/g18/g83/g88/g86/g75/g16/g82/g73/g73/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g82/g81/g79/g92/g3
/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g68/g70/g87/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g89/g82/g76/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g49/g50/g55/g3/g36/g47/g47/g50/g58/g40/g39/g3/g86/g87/g68/g87/g72/g3/g73/g82/g88/g81/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g21/g23/g17/g3
/g50/g81/g70/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g83/g72/g70/g76/g73/g76/g70/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g3/g75/g68/g86/g3/g69/g72/g72/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g85/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g70/g76/g68/g81/g3/g76/g86/g3/g86/g72/g87/g3/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g47/g40/g57/g40/g47/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g58/g44/g39/g55/g43/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g47/g40/g57/g40/g47/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g89/g68/g85/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g68/g74/g81/g76/g87/g88/g71/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g87/g88/g71/g72/g3
/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g93/g72/g85/g82/g3/g87/g82/g3/g24/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g86/g3/g11/g83/g72/g68/g78/g3/g82/g85/g3/g39/g38/g12/g17/g3/g39/g88/g85/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g51/g56/g47/g54/g40/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g58/g44/g39/g55/g43/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g92/g70/g79/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g79/g82/g90/g3/g87/g82/g3/g24/g19/g3/g83/g72/g85/g70/g72/g81/g87/g3/g80/g68/g91/g76/g80/g88/g80/g3/g11/g86/g84/g88/g68/g85/g72/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g12/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g86/g87/g68/g85/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g69/g72/g3/g87/g85/g76/g74/g74/g72/g85/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g83/g83/g85/g82/g83/g85/g76/g68/g87/g72/g3/g93/g72/g85/g82/g3/g70/g85/g82/g86/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g15/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g85/g72/g86/g88/g79/g87/g86/g3
/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g69/g72/g76/g81/g74/g3/g72/g84/g88/g68/g79/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g72/g81/g71/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g58/g44/g39/g55/g43/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g86/g72/g87/g87/g76/g81/g74/g15/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g92/g70/g79/g72/g3/g79/g72/g81/g74/g87/g75/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g58/g44/g39/g55/g43/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g15/g3/g75/g82/g90/g72/g89/g72/g85/g15/g3/g75/g68/g86/g3/g81/g82/g3/g72/g73/g73/g72/g70/g87/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g39/g38/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g17/g3
FUNCTIONAL OVERVIEW 
/g55/g75/g72/g85/g72/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g86/g76/g91/g3/g80/g68/g77/g82/g85/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g55/g85/g68/g70/g78/g72/g85/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g15/g3/g68/g86/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g69/g79/g82/g70/g78/g3/g71/g76/g68/g74/g85/g68/g80/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g21/g24/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3
/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g15/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g15/g3/g76/g80/g83/g72/g71/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3
/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g3/g68/g70/g70/g82/g85/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g16/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g86/g3/g83/g88/g86/g75/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g70/g76/g68/g81/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g17/g3/g44/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g77/g68/g70/g78/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3
/g71/g85/g76/g89/g72/g81/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g15/g3/g90/g75/g76/g79/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g70/g82/g81/g71/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g72/g85/g86/g3/g80/g82/g81/g76/g87/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g77/g68/g70/g78/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3
/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g87/g82/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g3/g68/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3
/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g86/g3/g68/g81/g3/g68/g71/g71/g72/g71/g3/g86/g82/g88/g85/g70/g72/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g85/g72/g72/g3/g68/g71/g71/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g68/g79/g3/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g68/g79/g3/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g86/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g86/g88/g83/g83/g79/g92/g3
/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g86/g3/g68/g79/g79/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g72/g84/g88/g76/g85/g72/g71/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g86/g3/g81/g72/g72/g71/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g55/g85/g68/g70/g78/g72/g85/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 167 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g21/g28/g3
 
Figure 5-25.—Tracker 2000 block diagram. 
Control Logic 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g86/g72/g81/g86/g72/g86/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g3/g76/g86/g3/g83/g88/g86/g75/g72/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g3/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g17/g3/g54/g76/g81/g70/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g80/g82/g80/g72/g81/g87/g68/g85/g92/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g80/g88/g86/g87/g3/g85/g72/g80/g72/g80/g69/g72/g85/g3/g90/g75/g68/g87/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g3/g90/g68/g86/g3/g83/g88/g86/g75/g72/g71/g15/g3/g87/g88/g85/g81/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g47/g40/g39/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3
/g90/g76/g87/g75/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g68/g87/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g83/g83/g85/g82/g83/g85/g76/g68/g87/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g15/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3
/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g17/g3
/g36/g73/g87/g72/g85/g3/g68/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g3/g76/g86/g3/g83/g88/g86/g75/g72/g71/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g85/g72/g80/g68/g76/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g70/g82/g81/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g88/g81/g87/g76/g79/g3/g68/g81/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g76/g86/g3/g80/g68/g71/g72/g3/g82/g85/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g86/g72/g70/g88/g85/g72/g71/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g43/g44/g42/g43/g3/g47/g50/g38/g46/g50/g56/g55/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g51/g56/g47/g54/g40/g3/g42/g40/g49/g40/g53/g36/g55/g50/g53/g3/g83/g88/g86/g75/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g81/g79/g92/g3/g82/g81/g72/g86/g3
/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g85/g72/g84/g88/g76/g85/g72/g3/g85/g72/g83/g72/g87/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g87/g88/g85/g81/g72/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g82/g85/g3/g82/g73/g73/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g85/g72/g79/g68/g92/g3/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g79/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g38/g43/g36/g49/g49/g40/g47/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g86/g3/g36/g15/g3/g36/g47/g55/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g37/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g85/g72/g79/g68/g92/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g3/g86/g76/g81/g74/g79/g72/g16/g83/g82/g79/g72/g15/g3
/g71/g82/g88/g69/g79/g72/g16/g87/g75/g85/g82/g90/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g72/g16/g72/g81/g72/g85/g74/g76/g93/g72/g71/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g36/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g72/g81/g72/g85/g74/g76/g93/g72/g71/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g37/g17/g3/g44/g73/g3/g38/g43/g36/g49/g49/g40/g47/g3/g36/g3/g76/g86/g3
/g68/g79/g85/g72/g68/g71/g92/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g43/g36/g49/g49/g40/g47/g3/g37/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g3/g76/g86/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g86/g72/g71/g15/g3/g38/g43/g36/g49/g49/g40/g47/g3/g36/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g69/g72/g3/g70/g68/g81/g70/g72/g79/g72/g71/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g38/g43/g36/g49/g49/g40/g47/g3
/g37/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g36/g47/g55/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g3/g76/g86/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g86/g72/g71/g15/g3/g68/g81/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g79/g76/g81/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g86/g72/g87/g15/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g72/g81/g68/g69/g79/g72/g86/g3/g68/g81/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g79/g3/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g3/g87/g82/g3
/g87/g82/g74/g74/g79/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g85/g72/g79/g68/g92/g3/g82/g81/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g82/g73/g73/g15/g3/g70/g68/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g79/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g87/g72/g3/g69/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g86/g3/g36/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g37/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g79/g3/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g3/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g79/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g53/g36/g55/g40/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g78/g81/g82/g69/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g3/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g36/g47/g55/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g3
/g76/g86/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g47/g40/g39/g86/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g36/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g37/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g86/g3/g73/g79/g68/g86/g75/g3/g68/g79/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g87/g72/g79/g92/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g36/g47/g55/g3/g47/g40/g39/g3/g76/g86/g3/g82/g81/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g76/g81/g88/g82/g88/g86/g79/g92/g17/g3
/g51/g85/g72/g86/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g72/g76/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g86/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g70/g68/g81/g70/g72/g79/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g36/g47/g55/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g87/g75/g72/g81/g3
/g69/g72/g70/g82/g80/g72/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g41/g53/g40/g52/g56/g40/g49/g38/g60/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g86/g3/g11/g24/g19/g18/g25/g19/g15/g3/g23/g19/g19/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g3/g43/g93/g12/g3/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g79/g92/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3
/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g53/g36/g49/g42/g40/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g86/g3/g11/g47/g50/g58/g15/g3/g48/g40/g39/g3/g20/g15/g3/g48/g40/g39/g3/g21/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g43/g44/g42/g43/g12/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g73/g82/g88/g85/g3/g85/g72/g79/g68/g92/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g83/g83/g85/g82/g83/g85/g76/g68/g87/g72/g3/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g68/g79/g3/g70/g75/g68/g85/g68/g70/g87/g72/g85/g76/g86/g87/g76/g70/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3/g76/g80/g83/g72/g71/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g11/g87/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g24/g16/g23/g12/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 168 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g22/g19/g3
Table 5-4.—Terminal Characteristics for Impedance ranges 
/g3
RANGE OPEN CIRCUIT 
VOLTAGE (Vp) 
SHORT CIRCUIT 
CURRENT (mAr) 
/g43/g76/g74/g75/g3/g25/g19/g3 /g19/g17/g24/g26/g3
/g48/g72/g71/g76/g88/g80/g3/g21/g3 /g21/g19/g3 /g19/g17/g24/g22/g3
/g48/g72/g71/g76/g88/g80/g3/g20/g3 /g20/g24/g3 /g27/g17/g24/g3
/g47/g82/g90/g3/g20/g19/g3 /g20/g22/g21/g3
/g3
/g60/g82/g88/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g82/g88/g85/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g86/g3/g80/g68/g81/g88/g68/g79/g79/g92/g3/g69/g92/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g53/g36/g49/g42/g40/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g15/g3/g82/g85/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g86/g70/g68/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g80/g3
/g68/g88/g87/g82/g80/g68/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g79/g92/g3/g69/g92/g3/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g36/g56/g55/g50/g3/g73/g88/g81/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g36/g56/g55/g50/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g68/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g73/g82/g79/g79/g82/g90/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g86/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g72/g3/g47/g50/g58/g15/g3/g48/g40/g39/g3/g20/g15/g3/g48/g40/g39/g3/g21/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g43/g44/g42/g43/g3/g82/g89/g72/g85/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g82/g89/g72/g85/g3/g76/g73/g3/g43/g44/g42/g43/g3/g47/g50/g38/g46/g50/g56/g55/g3/g76/g86/g3/g82/g73/g73/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g70/g88/g85/g85/g72/g81/g87/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3
/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g79/g90/g68/g92/g86/g3/g76/g81/g71/g76/g70/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g47/g40/g39/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g36/g56/g55/g50/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g86/g87/g68/g92/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g88/g81/g87/g76/g79/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3
/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g3/g68/g3/g83/g68/g85/g87/g76/g70/g88/g79/g68/g85/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g69/g92/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g76/g87/g86/g3/g68/g86/g86/g82/g70/g76/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g17/g3/g58/g75/g76/g79/g72/g3/g36/g56/g55/g50/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g36/g56/g55/g50/g3/g47/g40/g39/g3/g76/g86/g3
/g70/g82/g81/g87/g76/g81/g88/g82/g88/g86/g79/g92/g3/g82/g81/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g86/g83/g72/g72/g71/g3/g68/g87/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g86/g70/g68/g81/g81/g72/g71/g3/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g79/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g16/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g53/g36/g55/g40/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g78/g81/g82/g69/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3
/g68/g79/g79/g82/g90/g86/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g3/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g72/g71/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g68/g81/g68/g79/g92/g86/g76/g86/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g17/g3/g44/g73/g3/g36/g56/g55/g50/g3
/g68/g81/g71/g3/g36/g47/g55/g3/g11/g68/g79/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g87/g72/g12/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g68/g80/g72/g3/g87/g76/g80/g72/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g53/g36/g55/g40/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g68/g73/g73/g72/g70/g87/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g83/g72/g72/g71/g3/g82/g73/g3/g69/g82/g87/g75/g3/g73/g88/g81/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g3
/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g36/g47/g55/g3/g75/g68/g89/g76/g81/g74/g3/g83/g85/g76/g82/g85/g76/g87/g92/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g82/g81/g72/g3/g86/g82/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g90/g82/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g81/g72/g79/g86/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g68/g85/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g76/g81/g3/g82/g81/g72/g3
/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g69/g72/g73/g82/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g81/g72/g91/g87/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g11/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g21/g25/g12/g17/g3
/g3
 
Figure 5-26.—Range scanning sequence with AUTO and ALT active. 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g43/g44/g42/g43/g3/g47/g50/g38/g46/g50/g56/g55/g3/g73/g88/g81/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g71/g76/g86/g68/g69/g79/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g43/g44/g42/g43/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g79/g76/g80/g76/g87/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g68/g91/g76/g80/g88/g80/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g87/g82/g3/g21/g19/g3
/g89/g82/g79/g87/g86/g3/g83/g72/g68/g78/g3/g89/g76/g70/g72/g3/g25/g19/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g86/g3/g83/g72/g68/g78/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g68/g81/g88/g68/g79/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g3/g11/g36/g56/g55/g50/g3/g82/g73/g73/g12/g15/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g43/g44/g42/g43/g3
/g47/g50/g38/g46/g50/g56/g55/g3/g83/g85/g72/g89/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g43/g44/g42/g43/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g69/g72/g76/g81/g74/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g17/g3/g44/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g43/g44/g42/g43/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g43/g44/g42/g43/g3
/g47/g50/g38/g46/g50/g56/g55/g3/g76/g86/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g86/g72/g71/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g43/g44/g42/g43/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g70/g68/g81/g70/g72/g79/g72/g71/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g81/g72/g91/g87/g3/g79/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g11/g48/g40/g39/g3/g21/g12/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g69/g72/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3
/g68/g81/g71/g3/g69/g72/g70/g82/g80/g72/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g36/g56/g55/g50/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g53/g36/g49/g42/g40/g3/g86/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g72/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g43/g44/g42/g43/g3/g47/g50/g38/g46/g50/g56/g55/g3
/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g86/g87/g68/g85/g87/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g47/g50/g58/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g86/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g72/g3/g87/g75/g85/g82/g88/g74/g75/g3/g48/g40/g39/g3/g20/g15/g3/g48/g40/g39/g3/g21/g15/g3/g69/g68/g70/g78/g3/g87/g82/g3/g47/g50/g58/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g76/g81/g88/g72/g3/g88/g81/g87/g76/g79/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g36/g56/g55/g50/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g86/g87/g82/g83/g83/g72/g71/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g51/g56/g47/g54/g40/g3/g42/g40/g49/g40/g53/g36/g55/g50/g53/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g86/g3/g11/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g62/g14/g64/g15/g3/g81/g72/g74/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g62−/g64/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g51/g56/g47/g54/g40/g18/g39/g38/g12/g3/g87/g82/g74/g74/g79/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g79/g76/g81/g72/g86/g3
/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g79/g68/g85/g76/g87/g92/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 169 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g22/g20/g3
Oscillator 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g70/g82/g81/g86/g87/g68/g81/g87/g3/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g87/g88/g71/g72/g15/g3/g79/g82/g90/g3/g71/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g86/g76/g81/g72/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g76/g86/g3/g83/g85/g82/g74/g85/g68/g80/g80/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g69/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3/g82/g81/g72/g3/g89/g68/g85/g76/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g11/g24/g19/g18/g25/g19/g3/g43/g93/g12/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g90/g82/g3/g73/g76/g91/g72/g71/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g76/g72/g86/g3
/g11/g23/g19/g19/g3/g43/g93/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g3/g43/g93/g12/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g89/g68/g85/g76/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g71/g72/g83/g72/g81/g71/g86/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g79/g76/g81/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g55/g85/g68/g70/g78/g72/g85/g3
/g21/g19/g19/g19/g30/g3/g68/g3/g24/g19/g16/g43/g93/g3/g79/g76/g81/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g24/g19/g16/g43/g93/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g3/g25/g19/g16/g43/g93/g3/g79/g76/g81/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g25/g19/g16/g43/g93/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g17/g3/g44/g73/g3/g68/g3/g23/g19/g19/g16
/g43/g93/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g79/g76/g81/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g15/g3/g68/g81/g3/g27/g19/g16/g43/g93/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g76/g86/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g71/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g89/g72/g85/g86/g68/g87/g76/g79/g76/g87/g92/g3/g76/g86/g3/g69/g88/g76/g79/g87/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g82/g3/g72/g81/g86/g88/g85/g72/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3
/g68/g79/g90/g68/g92/g86/g3/g75/g68/g89/g72/g3/g79/g82/g90/g15/g3/g80/g72/g71/g76/g88/g80/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g76/g72/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g90/g82/g85/g78/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g17/g3
Signal Section 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g86/g76/g71/g72/g85/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g75/g72/g68/g85/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g55/g85/g68/g70/g78/g72/g85/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g17/g3/g44/g81/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g83/g83/g79/g76/g72/g71/g3/g68/g70/g85/g82/g86/g86/g3/g87/g90/g82/g3/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g68/g79/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g3/g69/g72/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g72/g71/g3/g89/g76/g68/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g16/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g77/g68/g70/g78/g86/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g70/g88/g85/g85/g72/g81/g87/g3/g87/g82/g3/g73/g79/g82/g90/g3/g87/g75/g85/g82/g88/g74/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g71/g85/g82/g83/g3/g87/g82/g3/g82/g70/g70/g88/g85/g3/g68/g70/g85/g82/g86/g86/g3/g76/g87/g86/g3
/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g68/g79/g86/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g70/g88/g85/g85/g72/g81/g87/g3/g73/g79/g82/g90/g3/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g71/g72/g73/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g15/g3/g90/g75/g76/g79/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3
/g71/g85/g82/g83/g3/g68/g70/g85/g82/g86/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g3/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g3/g71/g72/g73/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g17/g3/g37/g92/g3/g70/g82/g80/g69/g76/g81/g76/g81/g74/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g86/g72/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g88/g85/g85/g72/g81/g87/g16/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g3/g69/g72/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g72/g71/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g72/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g68/g83/g83/g72/g68/g85/g86/g3/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g16/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g77/g68/g70/g78/g86/g3/g68/g86/g3/g87/g75/g82/g88/g74/g75/g3/g76/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g69/g72/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g85/g76/g74/g76/g81/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g68/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3
/g86/g82/g88/g85/g70/g72/g3/g11/g57
/g86/g12/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g68/g3/g86/g72/g85/g76/g72/g86/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g76/g80/g83/g72/g71/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g11/g61/g86/g12/g17/g3/g36/g81/g3/g72/g84/g88/g76/g89/g68/g79/g72/g81/g87/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g76/g86/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3
/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g21/g26/g17/g3/g36/g86/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g86/g72/g72/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g68/g79/g86/g82/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g75/g82/g90/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g68/g79/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g68/g73/g73/g72/g70/g87/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g3
/g71/g72/g73/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g83/g79/g68/g87/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g75/g82/g90/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g88/g85/g85/g72/g81/g87/g3/g87/g75/g85/g82/g88/g74/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g68/g79/g86/g3/g68/g73/g73/g72/g70/g87/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g71/g72/g73/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3
/g83/g79/g68/g87/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g85/g82/g88/g74/g75/g3/g70/g88/g85/g85/g72/g81/g87/g3/g86/g72/g81/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g83/g82/g76/g81/g87/g3/g44/g17/g3
/g3
 
Figure 5-27.—Signal section equivalent circuit. 
/g36/g81/g3/g82/g83/g72/g81/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g75/g68/g86/g3/g93/g72/g85/g82/g3/g70/g88/g85/g85/g72/g81/g87/g3/g73/g79/g82/g90/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g85/g82/g88/g74/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g68/g79/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g80/g68/g91/g76/g80/g88/g80/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g71/g85/g82/g83/g3/g68/g70/g85/g82/g86/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g68/g79/g86/g17/g3/g44/g81/g3/g68/g79/g79/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g86/g15/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g85/g72/g83/g85/g72/g86/g72/g81/g87/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g68/g3/g86/g87/g85/g68/g76/g74/g75/g87/g3/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g79/g72/g73/g87/g3/g87/g82/g3/g85/g76/g74/g75/g87/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g3
/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g15/g3/g68/g86/g3/g86/g72/g72/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g21/g27/g3/g89/g76/g72/g90/g3/g36/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g68/g3/g86/g75/g82/g85/g87/g3/g82/g70/g70/g88/g85/g86/g15/g3/g80/g68/g91/g76/g80/g88/g80/g3/g70/g88/g85/g85/g72/g81/g87/g3/g73/g79/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g85/g82/g88/g74/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g68/g79/g86/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g71/g85/g82/g83/g3/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g86/g76/g71/g72/g85/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g93/g72/g85/g82/g17/g3/g55/g75/g76/g86/g3/g82/g70/g70/g88/g85/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g68/g79/g79/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g76/g86/g3/g85/g72/g83/g85/g72/g86/g72/g81/g87/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g68/g3
/g86/g87/g85/g68/g76/g74/g75/g87/g3/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g87/g82/g83/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g82/g87/g87/g82/g80/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g15/g3/g68/g86/g3/g86/g72/g72/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g21/g27/g3/g89/g76/g72/g90/g3/g37/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 170 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g22/g21/g3
 
Figure 5-28.—Open and short circuit display. 
Pulse Generator 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g86/g3/g71/g92/g81/g68/g80/g76/g70/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g70/g72/g85/g87/g68/g76/g81/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g86/g3/g69/g92/g3/g71/g85/g76/g89/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g76/g81/g83/g88/g87/g3
/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g3/g88/g81/g71/g72/g85/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g81/g82/g85/g80/g68/g79/g3/g87/g90/g82/g16/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g68/g79/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g70/g82/g81/g86/g76/g71/g72/g85/g72/g71/g3/g68/g3/g86/g87/g68/g87/g76/g70/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g15/g3/g86/g76/g81/g70/g72/g3
/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g86/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g85/g72/g72/g3/g82/g85/g3/g80/g82/g85/g72/g3/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g68/g79/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g81/g82/g87/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g76/g85/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g17/g3/g43/g82/g90/g72/g89/g72/g85/g15/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3
/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g15/g3/g68/g81/g3/g76/g81/g16/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g83/g82/g86/g86/g76/g69/g79/g72/g17/g3
/g44/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g51/g56/g47/g54/g40/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g15/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g88/g86/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g93/g72/g85/g82/g3/g70/g85/g82/g86/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g85/g76/g74/g74/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g87/g68/g85/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g11/g14/g12/g3/g76/g86/g3/g72/g81/g68/g69/g79/g72/g71/g15/g3/g68/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g16/g74/g82/g76/g81/g74/g3/g93/g72/g85/g82/g3/g70/g85/g82/g86/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g85/g76/g74/g74/g72/g85/g86/g3/g68/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3
/g81/g72/g74/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g11−/g12/g3/g76/g86/g3/g72/g81/g68/g69/g79/g72/g71/g15/g3/g68/g3/g81/g72/g74/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g16/g74/g82/g76/g81/g74/g3/g93/g72/g85/g82/g3/g70/g85/g82/g86/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g85/g76/g74/g74/g72/g85/g86/g3/g68/g3/g81/g72/g74/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g17/g3/g44/g73/g3/g69/g82/g87/g75/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g72/g81/g68/g69/g79/g72/g71/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g81/g3
/g69/g82/g87/g75/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g81/g72/g74/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g68/g79/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g87/g72/g3/g70/g85/g82/g86/g86/g76/g81/g74/g86/g3/g11/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g86/g12/g17/g3/g50/g81/g70/g72/g3/g68/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3
/g87/g85/g76/g74/g74/g72/g85/g72/g71/g15/g3/g76/g87/g86/g3/g71/g88/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g76/g86/g3/g86/g72/g87/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g58/g44/g39/g55/g43/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g78/g81/g82/g69/g17/g3/g41/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g21/g28/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g90/g68/g89/g72/g73/g82/g85/g80/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g85/g72/g72/g3
/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g83/g82/g79/g68/g85/g76/g87/g92/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g86/g3/g68/g87/g3/g89/g68/g85/g76/g82/g88/g86/g3/g86/g72/g87/g87/g76/g81/g74/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g58/g44/g39/g55/g43/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g17/g3
/g3
 
Figure 5-29.—Pulse generator waveforms. 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g47/g40/g57/g40/g47/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g72/g68/g78/g3/g82/g73/g3/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g93/g72/g85/g82/g3/g87/g82/g3/g24/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g86/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g79/g68/g85/g76/g87/g92/g3/g71/g72/g83/g72/g81/g71/g72/g81/g87/g3
/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g83/g82/g79/g68/g85/g76/g87/g92/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g68/g81/g3/g82/g83/g72/g81/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g72/g81/g87/g15/g3/g68/g3/g80/g68/g91/g76/g80/g88/g80/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g24/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g86/g3/g83/g72/g68/g78/g16/g87/g82/g16/g83/g72/g68/g78/g3

===== PDF-side 171 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g22/g22/g3
/g76/g86/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g72/g81/g87/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g72/g76/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g82/g85/g3/g81/g72/g74/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g20/g19/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g86/g3/g83/g72/g68/g78/g16/g87/g82/g16/g83/g72/g68/g78/g3/g90/g75/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g72/g3/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3
/g68/g70/g87/g76/g89/g72/g17/g3
Q-10. What minimum/maximum voltage level can be attained in the pulse generator section by 
adjusting the LEVEL control? 
/g44/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g39/g38/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g15/g3/g68/g3/g93/g72/g85/g82/g16/g87/g82/g16/g24/g16/g89/g82/g79/g87/g86/g3/g39/g38/g3/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g3/g76/g86/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g71/g3/g68/g87/g3/g42/g20/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g42/g21/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g3/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3
/g83/g82/g79/g68/g85/g76/g87/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g3/g76/g86/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g79/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g81/g72/g74/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g86/g17/g3/g37/g92/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g15/g3
/g92/g82/g88/g3/g72/g81/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g68/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g39/g38/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g71/g76/g86/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g81/g72/g74/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g17/g3/g37/g92/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g81/g72/g74/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g15/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3
/g72/g81/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g68/g3/g81/g72/g74/g68/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g39/g38/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g82/g81/g79/g92/g3/g76/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g89/g72/g3/g69/g88/g87/g87/g82/g81/g3/g76/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g73/g73/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g58/g44/g39/g55/g43/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g78/g81/g82/g69/g3
/g75/g68/g86/g3/g81/g82/g3/g72/g73/g73/g72/g70/g87/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g39/g38/g3/g80/g82/g71/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3
CRT Display 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g3/g71/g72/g73/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g71/g85/g76/g89/g72/g85/g86/g3/g69/g82/g82/g86/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g90/g16/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g86/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g72/g85/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3
/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g86/g3/g81/g72/g72/g71/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g73/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g83/g79/g68/g87/g72/g86/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g43/g50/g53/g44/g61/g3/g11/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g12/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g57/g40/g53/g55/g3/g11/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g12/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3
/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g3/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g55/g53/g36/g38/g40/g3/g53/g50/g55/g36/g55/g40/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g3/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3
/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g75/g82/g85/g87/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g83/g68/g85/g68/g79/g79/g72/g79/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g68/g91/g76/g86/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g3/g74/g85/g68/g87/g76/g70/g88/g79/g72/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g85/g72/g72/g3/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g86/g3/g11/g44/g49/g55/g40/g49/g54/g44/g55/g60/g15/g3/g41/g50/g38/g56/g54/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g86/g87/g76/g74/g80/g68/g87/g76/g86/g80/g12/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g83/g72/g85/g3
/g69/g85/g76/g74/g75/g87/g81/g72/g86/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g70/g79/g68/g85/g76/g87/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g16/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g44/g49/g55/g40/g49/g54/g44/g55/g60/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g85/g76/g80/g68/g85/g92/g3/g90/g68/g92/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g89/g76/g86/g88/g68/g79/g3/g84/g88/g68/g79/g76/g87/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g17/g3/g41/g50/g38/g56/g54/g3/g76/g86/g3/g79/g82/g70/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g69/g68/g70/g78/g3/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g68/g86/g3/g92/g82/g88/g85/g3/g87/g85/g76/g80/g80/g76/g81/g74/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g80/g72/g81/g87/g17/g3
/g36/g86/g87/g76/g74/g80/g68/g87/g76/g86/g80/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g81/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g79/g3/g68/g71/g77/g88/g86/g87/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g76/g86/g3/g86/g72/g87/g3/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g68/g70/g87/g82/g85/g92/g17/g3
Power Supply 
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g86/g88/g83/g83/g79/g92/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g81/g3/g68/g70/g16/g79/g76/g81/g72/g16/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g86/g88/g83/g83/g79/g92/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g88/g85/g81/g72/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g82/g73/g73/g3/g69/g92/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g51/g50/g58/g40/g53/g18/g44/g49/g55/g40/g49/g54/g44/g55/g60/g3/g78/g81/g82/g69/g3/g79/g82/g70/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g82/g81/g87/g3/g83/g68/g81/g72/g79/g17/g3/g50/g81/g70/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g88/g85/g81/g72/g71/g3/g82/g81/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g86/g88/g83/g83/g79/g92/g3
/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g86/g3/g20/g21/g3/g57/g3/g71/g70/g3/g11/g81/g82/g80/g76/g81/g68/g79/g12/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3±/g24/g3/g57/g3/g71/g70/g3/g11/g85/g72/g74/g88/g79/g68/g87/g72/g71/g12/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g81/g82/g85/g80/g68/g79/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g68/g79/g3/g88/g86/g72/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g82/g86/g70/g76/g79/g79/g68/g87/g82/g85/g15/g3
/g83/g88/g79/g86/g72/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g15/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g70/g82/g81/g87/g85/g82/g79/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g55/g85/g68/g70/g78/g72/g85/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g3/g82/g88/g87/g83/g88/g87/g86/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g86/g88/g83/g83/g79/g92/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g3/g76/g86/g3
/g83/g85/g82/g89/g76/g71/g72/g71/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g68/g3/g73/g76/g79/g68/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g25/g17/g22/g3/g57
/g85/g80/g86/g15/g3/g14/g20/g27/g19/g3/g57/g3/g71/g70/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g73/g79/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g71/g85/g76/g89/g72/g85/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g86/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g3/g85/g72/g74/g88/g79/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3
−/g20/g22/g21/g19/g3/g57/g3/g71/g70/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g38/g53/g55/g3/g68/g70/g70/g72/g79/g72/g85/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g17/g3
COMPONENT TESTING 
/g49/g82/g90/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g75/g68/g89/g72/g3/g68/g3/g69/g68/g86/g76/g70/g3/g88/g81/g71/g72/g85/g86/g87/g68/g81/g71/g76/g81/g74/g3/g82/g73/g3/g75/g82/g90/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g55/g85/g68/g70/g78/g72/g85/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g3/g90/g82/g85/g78/g86/g15/g3/g90/g72/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g68/g3/g73/g72/g90/g3
/g72/g91/g68/g80/g83/g79/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g71/g76/g73/g73/g72/g85/g72/g81/g87/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g86/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g86/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g76/g85/g3/g68/g86/g86/g82/g70/g76/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g86/g17/g3/g37/g72/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g68/g85/g74/g72/g3/g81/g88/g80/g69/g72/g85/g3
/g82/g73/g3/g71/g76/g73/g73/g72/g85/g72/g81/g87/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g69/g72/g3/g74/g76/g89/g72/g81/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g81/g92/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g15/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g86/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g83/g85/g72/g86/g72/g81/g87/g3/g82/g81/g79/g92/g3/g68/g3/g73/g72/g90/g17/g3
Testing Resistors 
/g36/g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g68/g70/g85/g82/g86/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g83/g85/g82/g69/g72/g86/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g55/g85/g68/g70/g78/g72/g85/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g3/g87/g82/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g72/g3/g76/g81/g3/g68/g3
/g70/g82/g88/g81/g87/g72/g85/g70/g79/g82/g70/g78/g90/g76/g86/g72/g3/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g68/g85/g82/g88/g81/g71/g3/g76/g87/g86/g3/g70/g72/g81/g87/g72/g85/g3/g68/g91/g76/g86/g3/g73/g85/g82/g80/g3/g68/g81/g3/g82/g83/g72/g81/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g83/g82/g86/g76/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g74/g85/g72/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g76/g86/g3
/g71/g76/g85/g72/g70/g87/g79/g92/g3/g85/g72/g79/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g72/g86/g86/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g69/g72/g3/g82/g69/g86/g72/g85/g89/g72/g71/g17/g3
LOW RANGE/g17/g178/g55/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g90/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g74/g81/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g86/g3/g69/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3/g20Ω /g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g20/g46/g17/g3/g41/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3
/g24/g16/g22/g19/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g72/g73/g73/g72/g70/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g81/g74/g79/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g79/g82/g90/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g17/g3/g36/g3/g20Ω /g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g3/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g86/g3/g68/g79/g80/g82/g86/g87/g3/g28/g19/g158/g3/g3
/g82/g73/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g3/g24/g19Ω /g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g23/g24/g158/g3/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3/g36/g3/g23/g19/g19Ω /g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g3/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g89/g72/g85/g92/g3/g86/g80/g68/g79/g79/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3
/g68/g81/g74/g79/g72/g17/g3/g53/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g79/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g68/g81/g3/g20Ω /g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g68/g83/g83/g72/g68/g85/g3/g68/g86/g3/g68/g3/g86/g75/g82/g85/g87/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g11/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g12/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g86/g3/g68/g69/g82/g89/g72/g3
/g23/g19/g19Ω /g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g79/g82/g82/g78/g3/g79/g76/g78/g72/g3/g68/g81/g3/g82/g83/g72/g81/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g11/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g12/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 172 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g22/g23/g3
 
Figure 5-30.—Effects of resistance on the rotation angle in low range. 
MEDIUM 1 RANGE/g17/g178/g55/g75/g72/g3/g80/g72/g71/g76/g88/g80/g3/g20/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g74/g81/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g86/g3/g69/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3/g24/g19Ω /g3
/g68/g81/g71/g3/g20/g19/g46Ω /g17/g3/g41/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g22/g20/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g68/g3/g24/g19Ω /g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g15/g3/g68/g3/g20/g46Ω /g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g3/g20/g19/g46Ω /g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g3
/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g72/g71/g76/g88/g80/g3/g20/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g17/g3/g53/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g86/g80/g68/g79/g79/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g68/g81/g3/g24/g19Ω /g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3/g68/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g79/g80/g82/g86/g87/g3/g68/g3/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3
/g79/g76/g81/g72/g17/g3/g36/g3/g20/g46Ω /g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g3/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g81/g74/g79/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g23/g24/g158/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g85/g72/g68/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3/g20/g19/g46Ω /g3
/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g82/g81/g79/g92/g3/g68/g3/g86/g79/g76/g74/g75/g87/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3/g53/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g86/g3/g88/g81/g71/g72/g85/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g68/g81/g3/g20/g19/g46Ω /g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g3/g68/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3
/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g86/g88/g70/g75/g3/g68/g3/g86/g80/g68/g79/g79/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g68/g81/g74/g79/g72/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g87/g3/g68/g79/g80/g82/g86/g87/g3/g68/g83/g83/g72/g68/g85/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g68/g3/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g3/g79/g76/g81/g72/g17/g3
/g3
 
Figure 5-31.—Effects of resistance on the rotation angle in medium 1 range. 
 
Q-11. Medium 1 range is designed to check what resistance values? 
MEDIUM 2 RANGE/g17/g178/g55/g75/g72/g3/g80/g72/g71/g76/g88/g80/g3/g21/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g74/g81/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g86/g3/g69/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3/g20/g46Ω /g3
/g68/g81/g71/g3/g21/g19/g19/g46Ω /g3/g41/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g22/g21/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g68/g3/g20/g46Ω /g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g15/g3/g68/g3/g20/g24/g46Ω /g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g3/g21/g19/g19/g46Ω /g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g3
/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g72/g71/g76/g88/g80/g3/g21/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g17/g3/g53/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g86/g80/g68/g79/g79/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g68/g81/g3/g20/g46Ω /g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g68/g83/g83/g72/g68/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g68/g79/g80/g82/g86/g87/g3/g68/g3/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3
/g79/g76/g81/g72/g17/g3/g36/g3/g20/g24/g46Ω /g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g3/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g86/g3/g68/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g81/g74/g79/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g23/g24/g158/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g85/g72/g68/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g68/g3/g21/g19/g19/g46Ω /g3
/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g82/g81/g79/g92/g3/g68/g3/g86/g79/g76/g74/g75/g87/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g86/g3/g69/g72/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g72/g71/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g68/g81/g3/g21/g19/g19/g46Ω /g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g72/g71/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g92/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g75/g68/g89/g72/g3/g86/g88/g70/g75/g3/g68/g3/g86/g80/g68/g79/g79/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g87/g3/g68/g83/g83/g72/g68/g85/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g68/g79/g80/g82/g86/g87/g3/g68/g3
/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g3/g79/g76/g81/g72/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 173 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g22/g24/g3
 
Figure 5-32.—Effects of resistance on the rotation angle in medium 2 range. 
HIGH RANGE/g17/g178/g55/g75/g72/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g76/g86/g3/g71/g72/g86/g76/g74/g81/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g86/g3/g69/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3/g22/g46Ω /g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g20/g48Ω /g17/g3
/g41/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g22/g22/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g90/g82/g88/g79/g71/g3/g69/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g72/g71/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g68/g3/g22/g46Ω /g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g15/g3/g68/g3/g24/g19/g46Ω /g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g3/g20/g48Ω /g3
/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g3/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g17/g3/g53/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g86/g80/g68/g79/g79/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g68/g81/g3/g22/g46Ω /g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g68/g83/g83/g72/g68/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g68/g79/g80/g82/g86/g87/g3/g68/g3/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g79/g76/g81/g72/g17/g3
/g36/g3/g24/g19/g46Ω /g3/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g70/g68/g88/g86/g72/g3/g68/g3/g70/g75/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g68/g81/g74/g79/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g23/g24/g158/g15/g3/g90/g75/g72/g85/g72/g68/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g68/g3/g20/g48Ω /g3
/g85/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g82/g81/g79/g92/g3/g68/g3/g86/g79/g76/g74/g75/g87/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g89/g72/g85/g92/g3/g70/g79/g82/g86/g72/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g3/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g3/g79/g76/g81/g72/g17/g3/g53/g72/g86/g76/g86/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g86/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g68/g81/g3
/g20/g48Ω /g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g3/g86/g88/g70/g75/g3/g68/g3/g86/g80/g68/g79/g79/g3/g85/g82/g87/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g87/g3/g68/g83/g83/g72/g68/g85/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g68/g3/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g3/g79/g76/g81/g72/g17/g3
/g3
 
Figure 5-33.—Effects of resistance on the rotation angle in high range. 
Testing Capacitors 
/g58/g75/g72/g81/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g70/g68/g83/g68/g70/g76/g87/g82/g85/g86/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g69/g72/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g72/g71/g3/g68/g86/g3/g68/g81/g3/g72/g79/g79/g76/g83/g86/g72/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g93/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g86/g75/g68/g83/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g72/g79/g79/g76/g83/g86/g72/g3/g71/g72/g83/g72/g81/g71/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g68/g83/g68/g70/g76/g87/g82/g85/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g15/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g15/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g72/g79/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g76/g80/g83/g72/g71/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g17/g3/g41/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16
/g22/g23/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3/g19/g17/g21/g21µ/g41/g3/g70/g68/g83/g68/g70/g76/g87/g82/g85/g3/g76/g81/g3/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g20/g21/g3/g70/g82/g80/g69/g76/g81/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g17/g3/g36/g86/g3
/g92/g82/g88/g3/g85/g72/g89/g76/g72/g90/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g73/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g15/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g81/g82/g87/g76/g70/g72/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g68/g83/g83/g72/g68/g85/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g68/g81/g3/g82/g83/g72/g81/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g90/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g68/g87/g3
/g25/g19/g3/g43/g93/g30/g3/g90/g75/g76/g79/g72/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g68/g87/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g3/g43/g93/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g68/g83/g83/g72/g68/g85/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g68/g3/g86/g75/g82/g85/g87/g17/g3/g37/g72/g87/g90/g72/g72/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g86/g72/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g86/g3/g71/g76/g86/g83/g79/g68/g92/g72/g71/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g68/g3/g89/g68/g85/g76/g72/g87/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g72/g79/g79/g76/g83/g86/g82/g76/g71/g86/g15/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g71/g72/g80/g82/g81/g86/g87/g85/g68/g87/g72/g86/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g70/g72/g85/g87/g68/g76/g81/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3
/g70/g82/g80/g69/g76/g81/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g69/g72/g87/g87/g72/g85/g3/g87/g75/g68/g81/g3/g82/g87/g75/g72/g85/g86/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g72/g91/g68/g80/g76/g81/g76/g81/g74/g3/g68/g3/g70/g68/g83/g68/g70/g76/g87/g82/g85/g17/g3

===== PDF-side 174 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g22/g25/g3
 
Figure 5-34.—Signature of a 0.22 µµµµF capacitor. 
/g55/g68/g69/g79/g72/g3/g24/g16/g24/g3/g79/g76/g86/g87/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g70/g68/g83/g68/g70/g76/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g70/g82/g89/g72/g85/g72/g71/g3/g69/g92/g3/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g20/g21/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g70/g82/g80/g69/g76/g81/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g3
/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g55/g85/g68/g70/g78/g72/g85/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3/g79/g82/g90/g72/g86/g87/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g70/g68/g83/g68/g70/g76/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g76/g81/g3/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3/g70/g82/g80/g69/g76/g81/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g3/g68/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3
/g89/g72/g85/g92/g3/g81/g68/g85/g85/g82/g90/g3/g75/g82/g85/g76/g93/g82/g81/g87/g68/g79/g3/g72/g79/g79/g76/g83/g86/g82/g76/g71/g17/g3/g38/g68/g83/g68/g70/g76/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g79/g72/g86/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g3/g87/g75/g68/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g68/g83/g83/g72/g68/g85/g3/g87/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g68/g81/g3/g82/g83/g72/g81/g17/g3/g55/g75/g72/g3
/g88/g83/g83/g72/g85/g80/g82/g86/g87/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g70/g68/g83/g68/g70/g76/g87/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g76/g81/g3/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3/g70/g82/g80/g69/g76/g81/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g3/g68/g3/g89/g72/g85/g92/g3/g81/g68/g85/g85/g82/g90/g3/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g72/g79/g79/g76/g83/g86/g82/g76/g71/g3
/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g17/g3/g38/g68/g83/g68/g70/g76/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g74/g85/g72/g68/g87/g72/g85/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g3/g87/g75/g68/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g86/g72/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g68/g83/g83/g72/g68/g85/g3/g68/g86/g3/g68/g3/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g79/g76/g81/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3/g86/g75/g82/g85/g87/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g17/g3/g3

===== PDF-side 175 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g22/g26/g3
Table 5-5.—Min/Max Capacitance Values 
RANGE TEST FREQUENCY 
/g3 /g24/g19/g18/g25/g19/g3/g43/g93/g3 /g23/g19/g19/g3/g43/g93/g3 /g21/g19/g19/g19/g3/g43/g93/g3
/g43/g44/g42/g43/g3/g17/g19/g19/g20/g541/g41/g16/g20/g541/g41/g3 /g24/g19/g19/g83/g41/g16/g17/g20/g541/g41/g3 /g20/g19/g19/g83/g41/g16/g17/g19/g21/g541/g41/g3
/g48/g40/g39/g44/g56/g48/g3/g20/g3 /g17/g19/g20/g541/g41/g16/g21/g541/g41/g3 /g17/g19/g19/g20/g541/g16/g17/g24/g541/g41/g3 /g21/g19/g19/g83/g41/g16/g17/g19/g24/g541/g41/g3
/g48/g40/g39/g44/g56/g48/g3/g21/g3 /g17/g21/g541/g41/g16/g24/g19/g541/g41/g3 /g17/g19/g21/g541/g41/g16/g24/g541/g41/g3 /g17/g19/g19/g24/g541/g16/g20/g541/g41/g3
/g47/g50/g58/g3 /g24/g541/g41/g16/g21/g19/g19/g19/g541/g41/g3/g17/g24/g80/g41/g16/g20/g19/g19/g541/g41/g3/g17/g21/g80/g41/g16/g21/g24/g541/g41/g3
 
Testing Inductors 
/g44/g81/g71/g88/g70/g87/g82/g85/g86/g15/g3/g79/g76/g78/g72/g3/g70/g68/g83/g68/g70/g76/g87/g82/g85/g86/g15/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g3/g68/g81/g3/g72/g79/g79/g76/g83/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g82/g81/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g55/g85/g68/g70/g78/g72/g85/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g17/g3/g41/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g22/g24/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3
/g92/g82/g88/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g86/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g71/g3/g76/g81/g3/g72/g68/g70/g75/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g20/g21/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g70/g82/g80/g69/g76/g81/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g86/g3/g69/g92/g3/g68/g3/g21/g24/g19/g80/g43/g3/g76/g81/g71/g88/g70/g87/g82/g85/g17/g3
/g3
 
Figure 5-35.—Signatures of a 250mH inductor. 
/g41/g72/g85/g85/g76/g87/g72/g3/g76/g81/g71/g88/g70/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g68/g79/g86/g82/g3/g69/g72/g3/g70/g75/g72/g70/g78/g72/g71/g3/g88/g86/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g88/g81/g76/g87/g30/g3/g75/g82/g90/g72/g89/g72/g85/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g71/g3/g90/g76/g79/g79/g3/g69/g72/g3
/g71/g76/g73/g73/g72/g85/g72/g81/g87/g17/g3/g41/g72/g85/g85/g76/g87/g72/g3/g76/g81/g71/g88/g70/g87/g82/g85/g86/g3/g82/g83/g72/g85/g68/g87/g72/g3/g90/g72/g79/g79/g3/g68/g87/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g76/g72/g86/g15/g3/g69/g88/g87/g3/g86/g68/g87/g88/g85/g68/g87/g72/g3/g68/g87/g3/g79/g82/g90/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g76/g72/g86/g17/g3/g41/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g3/g24/g16/g22/g25/g3
/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3/g23/g28/g19/g80/g43/g3/g73/g72/g85/g85/g76/g87/g72/g3/g76/g81/g71/g88/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g72/g71/g3/g68/g87/g3/g25/g19/g3/g43/g93/g17/g3/g44/g81/g3/g79/g82/g90/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g80/g72/g71/g76/g88/g80/g3/g20/g15/g3/g92/g82/g88/g3/g70/g68/g81/g3/g86/g72/g72/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3

===== PDF-side 176 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g22/g27/g3
/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g86/g3/g71/g76/g86/g87/g82/g85/g87/g76/g82/g81/g17/g3/g43/g82/g90/g72/g89/g72/g85/g15/g3/g76/g81/g3/g80/g72/g71/g76/g88/g80/g3/g21/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g75/g76/g74/g75/g3/g85/g68/g81/g74/g72/g86/g15/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g80/g83/g72/g71/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g71/g88/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3
/g79/g82/g90/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g68/g85/g72/g71/g3/g90/g76/g87/g75/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g79/g3/g76/g80/g83/g72/g71/g68/g81/g70/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g55/g85/g68/g70/g78/g72/g85/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g15/g3/g86/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g87/g88/g85/g72/g86/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g68/g3/g86/g83/g79/g76/g87/g3/g89/g72/g85/g87/g76/g70/g68/g79/g3/g87/g85/g68/g70/g72/g17/g3
/g41/g76/g74/g88/g85/g72/g86/g3/g24/g16/g22/g26/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g24/g16/g22/g27/g3/g86/g75/g82/g90/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g86/g68/g80/g72/g3/g23/g28/g19/g80/g43/g3/g76/g81/g71/g88/g70/g87/g82/g85/g3/g69/g72/g76/g81/g74/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g72/g71/g3/g68/g87/g3/g23/g19/g19/g3/g43/g93/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g21/g19/g19/g19/g3/g43/g93/g17/g3
/g3
 
Figure 5-36.—Signatures of a 490mH ferrite inductor tested at 60 Hz. 
/g3
 
Figure 5-37.—Signature of a 490mH ferrite inductor at 400 Hz.

===== PDF-side 177 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g22/g28/g3
 
Figure 5-38.—Signature of a 490mH ferrite inductor at 2000 Hz. 
/g3
SUMMARY 
/g49/g82/g90/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g90/g72/g3/g75/g68/g89/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g79/g72/g87/g72/g71/g3/g87/g75/g76/g86/g3/g70/g75/g68/g83/g87/g72/g85/g15/g3/g79/g72/g87/g10/g86/g3/g85/g72/g89/g76/g72/g90/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g80/g82/g85/g72/g3/g76/g80/g83/g82/g85/g87/g68/g81/g87/g3/g83/g82/g76/g81/g87/g86/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3POWER METER/g17/g3
/g50/g81/g72/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g90/g68/g87/g87/g80/g72/g87/g72/g85/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g36/g49/g18/g56/g53/g48/g16/g20/g21/g19/g17/g3/g44/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g81/g3IN-LINE TYPE WATTMETER/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g83/g85/g76/g81/g70/g76/g83/g68/g79/g3/g73/g88/g81/g70/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3SIGNAL GENERATOR/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g82/g3/g83/g85/g82/g71/g88/g70/g72/g3/g68/g81/g3/g68/g79/g87/g72/g85/g81/g68/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g89/g82/g79/g87/g68/g74/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
/g71/g72/g86/g76/g85/g72/g71/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3/g68/g80/g83/g79/g76/g87/g88/g71/g72/g15/g3/g90/g75/g76/g70/g75/g3/g75/g68/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g81/g72/g70/g72/g86/g86/g68/g85/g92/g3/g80/g82/g71/g88/g79/g68/g87/g76/g82/g81/g3/g73/g82/g85/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g82/g85/g3/g80/g72/g68/g86/g88/g85/g72/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3
/g70/g82/g81/g70/g72/g85/g81/g72/g71/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g85/g72/g3/g68/g85/g72/g3/g69/g68/g86/g76/g70/g68/g79/g79/g92/g3/g87/g90/g82/g3/g87/g92/g83/g72/g86/g3/g82/g73/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g74/g72/g81/g72/g85/g68/g87/g82/g85/g86/g29/g3AF/g3/g68/g81/g71/g3RF FREQUENCY GENERATORS/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3/g76/g81/g86/g87/g85/g88/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g71/g72/g87/g72/g85/g80/g76/g81/g72/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g73/g85/g72/g84/g88/g72/g81/g70/g92/g3/g82/g73/g3/g68/g3/g86/g76/g74/g81/g68/g79/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3FREQUENCY COUNTER/g17/g3
/g36/g81/g3/g76/g81/g86/g87/g85/g88/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g82/g73/g3/g74/g85/g72/g68/g87/g3/g89/g68/g79/g88/g72/g3/g87/g82/g3/g68/g3/g87/g72/g70/g75/g81/g76/g70/g76/g68/g81/g3/g76/g81/g3/g87/g85/g82/g88/g69/g79/g72/g86/g75/g82/g82/g87/g76/g81/g74/g3/g71/g76/g74/g76/g87/g68/g79/g3/g76/g81/g87/g72/g74/g85/g68/g87/g72/g71/g3/g79/g82/g74/g76/g70/g3/g70/g76/g85/g70/g88/g76/g87/g86/g3/g76/g86/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3
LOGIC PROBE/g17/g3
/g55/g75/g72/g3HUNTRON TRACKER 2000/g3/g76/g86/g3/g68/g3/g89/g72/g85/g86/g68/g87/g76/g79/g72/g3/g83/g76/g72/g70/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g3/g72/g84/g88/g76/g83/g80/g72/g81/g87/g3/g87/g75/g68/g87/g3/g76/g86/g3/g88/g86/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g68/g85/g72/g3
/g78/g81/g82/g90/g81/g3/g74/g82/g82/g71/g3/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g86/g3/g68/g74/g68/g76/g81/g86/g87/g3/g87/g75/g82/g86/g72/g3/g82/g73/g3/g88/g81/g78/g81/g82/g90/g81/g3/g84/g88/g68/g79/g76/g87/g92/g3/g82/g85/g3/g87/g85/g82/g88/g69/g79/g72/g86/g75/g82/g82/g87/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g70/g82/g80/g83/g82/g81/g72/g81/g87/g3/g79/g72/g89/g72/g79/g3/g68/g73/g87/g72/g85/g3/g83/g82/g90/g72/g85/g3
/g76/g86/g3/g71/g76/g86/g70/g82/g81/g81/g72/g70/g87/g72/g71/g3/g87/g82/g3/g87/g75/g72/g3/g71/g72/g89/g76/g70/g72/g3/g88/g81/g71/g72/g85/g3/g87/g72/g86/g87/g17/g3
/g3

===== PDF-side 178 =====

/g3
/g24/g16/g23/g19/g3
ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS Q1. THROUGH Q11. 
A-1. Load. 
A-2. An unbalance in the metering bridge. 
A-3. Attenuator. 
A-4. Oscillator circuit, modulator, and output control circuit. 
A-5. To produce an af (or video) signal that can be superimposed on the rf signal produced by the 
oscillator. 
A-6. 1 MHz and 10 MHz. 
A-7. DIM. 
A-8. Positive voltage (+V) and negative current (
−I). 
A-9. TRACE ROTATE control. 
A-10. 0 to 5 volts. 
A-11. 50 Ω  to 10KΩ .

===== PDF-side 179 =====

6-1
CHAPTER 6
THE OSCILLOSCOPE AND SPECTRUM ANALYZER
LEARNING OBJECTIVES
Upon completing this chapter, you should be able to:
1. Describe the purpose of the CRT used in the oscilloscope.
2. Explain the operation of an oscilloscope.
3. Describe the purpose of the controls and indicators found on an oscilloscope.
4. Describe the proper procedure for using a dual-trace oscilloscope.
5. Describe the accessory probes available for use with a dual-trace oscilloscope.
6. Explain the operation of the spectrum analyzer.
7. Describe the purpose of the controls and indicators found on the spectrum analyzer.
INTRODUCTION
One of the most widely used pieces of electronic test equipment is the OSCILLOSCOPE. An
oscilloscope is used to show the shape of a video pulse appearing at a selected equipment test point.
Although some oscilloscopes are better than others in accurately showing video pulses, all function in
fundamentally the same way. If you learn how one oscilloscope operates, you will be able to learn others.
As you will learn in this chapter, there are many different types of oscilloscopes—varying in
complexity from the simple to the complex. Before we get into our discussion of the dual-trace
oscilloscope, we will first present a general overview of basic single-trace oscilloscope operation. Shortly,
we will see how oscilloscopes use a CATHODE-RAY TUBE (CRT) in which controlled electron beams
are used to present a visible pattern of graphical data on a fluorescent screen.
Another piece of test equipment used is the SPECTRUM ANALYZER. This test equipment is used
to sweep over a band of frequencies to determine what frequencies are being produced by a specific
circuit under test, and then the amplitude of each frequency component. An accurate interpretation of the
display will allow you to determine the efficiency of the equipment being tested.
CATHODE-RAY TUBES
A detailed discussion of CATHODE-RAY TUBES (CRTs) is presented in NEETS, Module 6,
Electronic Emission, Tubes, and Power Supplies. Before continuing with your study of CRTs in this
section, you may want to review chapter 2 of that module.
Cathode-ray tubes used in oscilloscopes consist of an ELECTRON GUN, a DEFLECTION
SYSTEM, and a FLUORESCENT SCREEN. All of these elements are enclosed in the evacuated space

===== PDF-side 180 =====

6-2
inside the glass CRT. The electron gun generates electrons and focuses them into a narrow beam. The
deflection system moves the beam horizontally and vertically across the screen. The screen is coated with
a phosphorous material that glows when struck by the electrons. Figure 6-1 shows the construction of a
CRT.
Figure 6-1.—Construction of a CRT.
ELECTRON GUN
The ELECTRON GUN consists of a HEATER and a CATHODE to generate electrons, a
CONTROL GRID to control brightness by controlling electron flow, and two ANODES (FIRST and
SECOND). The main purpose of the first (FOCUSING) anode is to focus the electrons into a narrow
beam on the screen. The second (ACCELERATING) anode accelerates the electrons as they pass. The
control grid is cylindrical and has a small opening in a baffle at one end. The anodes consist of two
cylinders that contain baffles (or plates) with small holes in their centers.
 Q-1. What element controls the number of electrons striking the screen?
 Q-2. What element is controlled to focus the beam?
Cathode and Control Grid
As in most conventional electron tubes, the cathode is indirectly heated and emits a cloud of
electrons. The control grid is a hollow metal tube placed over the cathode. A small opening is located in
the center of a baffle at the end opposite the cathode. The control grid is maintained at a negative potential
with respect to the cathode to keep the electrons bunched together.
A high positive potential on the anodes pulls electrons through the hole in the grid. Because the grid
is near the cathode, it can control the number of electrons that are emitted. As in an ordinary electron
tube, the negative voltage of the grid can be varied either to control electron flow or stop it completely.
The brightness (intensity) of the image on the fluorescent screen is determined by the number of electrons
striking the screen. This is controlled by the voltage on the control grid.
Electrostatic Lenses and Focusing
The electron beam is focused by two ELECTROSTATIC FIELDS that exist between the control grid
and first anode and between the first and second anodes.
Figure 6-2 shows you how electrons move through the electron gun. The electrostatic field areas are
often referred to as LENSES because the fields bend electron streams in the same manner that optical

===== PDF-side 181 =====

6-3
lenses bend light rays. The first electrostatic lens cause the electrons to cross at the first focal point within
the field. The second lens bend the spreading streams and return them to a new, second focal point at the
CRT.
 Q-3. Why are the electrostatic fields between the electron gun elements called lenses?
Figure 6-2.—Formation of an electron beam.
Figure 6-2 also shows the relative voltage relationships on the electron-gun elements. The cathode
(K) is at a fixed positive voltage with respect to ground. The grid is at a variable negative voltage with
respect to the cathode. A fixed positive voltage of several thousand volts is connected to the second
(accelerating) anode. The potential of the first (focusing) anode is less positive than the potential of the
second anode. The first anode can be varied to place the focal point of the electron beam on the screen of
the tube. Control-grid potential is established at the proper level to allow the correct number of electrons
through the gun for the desired image intensity.
 Q-4. What is the function of the second anode?
ELECTRON BEAM-DEFLECTION SYSTEM
The electron beam is developed, focused, and accelerated by the electron gun. The beam appears on
the screen of the CRT as a small, bright dot. If the beam is left in one position, the electrons will soon
burn away the illuminating coating in that one area. To be of any use, the beam must be able to move. As
you have studied, an electrostatic field can bend the path of a moving electron.
As you have seen in the previous illustrations, the beam of electrons passes through an electrostatic
field between two plates. You should remember that electrons are negatively charged and that they will be
deflected in the direction of the electric force (from negative to positive). This deflection causes the
electrons to follow a curved path while in the electrostatic field.

===== PDF-side 182 =====

6-4
When the electrons leave the electrostatic field, they will take a straight path to the screen at the
angle at which they left the field. Because they were all deflected equally, the electrons will be traveling
toward the same spot. Of course, the proper voltages must exist on the anodes to produce the electrostatic
field. Changing these voltages changes the focal point of the beam and causes the electron beam to strike
the CRT at a different point.
Factors Influencing Deflection
The ANGLE OF DEFLECTION (the angle the outgoing electron beam makes with the CRT center
line axis between the plates) depends on the following factors:
• Length of the deflection field;
• Spacing between the deflection plates;
• The difference of potential between the plates; and
• The accelerating voltage on the second anode.
LENGTH OF DEFLECTION FIELD.—As shown in figure 6-3, a long field (long deflection
plates) has more time to exert its deflecting forces on an electron beam than does a shorter field (short
deflection plates). Therefore, the longer deflection plates can bend the beam to a greater deflection angle.
Figure 6-3.—Factors influencing length of field.
 Q-5. What effect do longer deflection plates have on the electron beam?
SPACING BETWEEN PLATES.—As shown in figure 6-4, the closer together the plates, the more
effect the electric force has on the deflection angle of the electron beam.

===== PDF-side 183 =====

6-5
Figure 6-4.—Spacing between plates.
 Q-6. What effect does closer spacing of plates have on the electron beam?
DIFFERENCE OF POTENTIAL.—  The potential on the plates (figure 6-5) can be varied to cause
a wider or narrower deflection angle. The greater the potential, the wider the deflection angle.
Figure 6-5.—Differences of potential.
 Q-7. Is the deflection angle greater with higher or lower potential on the plates?
BEAM ACCELERATION.—The faster the electrons are moving, the smaller their deflection angle
will be, as shown in figure 6-6.
Figure 6-6.—Beam acceleration.
 Q-8. Is the deflection angle greater when the beam is moving faster or slower?

===== PDF-side 184 =====

6-6
Vertical and Horizontal Plates
If two sets of deflection plates are placed at right angles to each other inside a CRT (figure 6-7), the
electron beam can be controlled in any direction. By varying the potential of the vertical-deflection plates,
you can make the spot (beam) on the face of the tube move vertically. The distance the beam moves will
be proportional to the change in potential difference between the plates. Changing the potential difference
between the horizontal-deflection plates will cause the beam to move a given distance from one side to
the other. Directions other than up-down and left-right are achieved by a combination of horizontal and
vertical movement.
Figure 6-7.—Deflection plate arrangement.
As shown in figure 6-8, position X of the beam is in the center. It can be moved to position Y by
going up 2 units and then right 2 units. Movement of the beam is the result of the simultaneous action of
both sets of deflection plates. The electrostatic field between the vertical plates moves the electrons up an
amount proportional to 2 units on the screen. As the beam passes between the horizontal plates, it moves
to the right an amount proportional to 2 units on the screen.
Figure 6-8.—Beam movement on the CRT.

===== PDF-side 185 =====

6-7
If the amount of deflection from the left and down occurred so that each set of plates acted at the
same time, the picture would be like the one in view A of figure 6-9. For example, if the vertical plates
moved the beam downward (starting from point X) at the rate of 3 units per second and the horizontal
plates moved it to the left at the rate of 1 unit per second, both movements would have been completed in
1 second at point Y. The result would be a straight line.
Figure 6-9.—Deflection of the beam.
In view B, the potentials on the vertical and horizontal plates change at the same rate. In the same
time period, say 1 second, both plates move the beam 1 unit. The horizontal plates have completed their
task at the end of 1 second, but the vertical plates have moved the beam only one-third of the required
distance. In this case, the picture in view B would appear on the screen.
Beam-deflection Plate Action
Recall from your study of chapter 2 of this module that waveforms are described in terms of
amplitude versus time. You have just seen how the movement of the CRT beam depends on both
potential (amplitude) and time.
 Q-9. Waveforms are described in terms of what two functions?
VERTICAL-DEFLECTION PLATES.—We will use figure 6-10 to explain the action of the
vertical-deflection plates in signal amplitude measurements. As this discussion begins, remember that
vertical-deflection plates are used to show amplitude of a signal, and horizontal-deflection plates are used
to show time and/or frequency relationships.

===== PDF-side 186 =====

6-8
Figure 6-10.—Amplitude versus time.
1. From T0 to T1, the vertical plates maintain their static difference in potential and the beam stays
at 0 units; the T0 to T1 change causes an increasing potential difference in the horizontal plates,
and the beam moves 1 unit to the right.
2. At T1, a positive potential difference change in the vertical plates occurs, which causes the beam
to move up (instantaneously) 2 units. This vertical (amplitude) beam location is maintained from
T1 to T4; horizontal beam movement continues moving to the right as 3 units of time pass.
3. At T4, an instantaneous negative change in potential of 4 units in amplitude occurs, and the beam
moves from +2 to -2 units.
4. From T4 to T7, the beam remains at -2 units. During this time period, the beam continues
moving horizontally to the right, indicating the passage of time.
5. At T7, a positive increase of amplitude occurs, and the beam moves vertically from -2 to 0 units.
From T7 to T8, no change occurs in vertical beam movement; however, horizontal movement
continues with time.
The vertical-plate potential difference follows the voltage of the waveform. The horizontal-plate
potential follows the passage of time. Together, they produce the image (trace) produced on the screen by
the moving beam.
 Q-10. The vertical-deflection plates are used to reproduce what function?
 Q-11. The horizontal-deflection plates are used to produce what function?
HORIZONTAL-DEFLECTION PLATES.—Now let's look at horizontal-deflection action.
Assume that the resistance of the potentiometer shown in figure 6-11 is spread evenly along its length.
When the arm of the potentiometer is at the middle position, the same potential exists on each plate. Since
there is zero potential difference between the plates, an electrostatic field is not moved downward at a
uniform rate; the right plate will become more positive than the left (you are looking down through the
top of the CRT). The electron beam will move to the right from screen point 0 through points 1, 2, 3, and
4 in equal time intervals.

===== PDF-side 187 =====

6-9
Figure 6-11.—Horizontal plates (top view).
If the potentiometer arm is moved at the same rate in the opposite direction, the right plate will
decrease in positive potential until the beam returns to the 0 position. At that point, the potential
difference between the plates is again zero. Moving the arm toward the other end of the resistance causes
the left plate to become more positive than the right, and the beam moves from screen points 0 through 4.
If the movement of the potentiometer arm is at a uniform (linear) rate, the beam moves at a uniform rate.
Notice that the ends of the deflection plates are bent outward to permit wide-angle deflection of the
beam. The vertical plates are bent up and down in the same manner.
 Q-12. Why are the ends of the deflection plates bent outward?
For ease of explanation, the manual movement of the potentiometer arm is satisfactory to introduce
you to horizontal beam movement. However, in the oscilloscope this is not how horizontal deflection is
accomplished. Beam movement voltages are produced much faster by sawtooth circuitry. You may want
to review the sawtooth generation section in NEETS, Module 9, Introduction to Wave-Generation and
Wave-Shaping Circuitry before continuing. Nearly all oscilloscopes with electrostatic deflection apply a
sawtooth voltage to the horizontal plates to produce horizontal deflection of the beam, as shown in
figure 6-12.
Figure 6-12.—Sawtooth generator.
In the figure, the sawtooth generator replaces the potentiometer and is connected to both horizontal
plates of the CRT. At the reference line, the potential on both plates is equal. Below the line, the left plate
is more positive and the right plate is less positive. This causes the beam to move left. Above the line, the
right plate is made more positive than the left and the beam moves to the right. The waveform amplitude
causes a uniform movement of the beam across the screen (called TRACE). RETRACE time, shown at
the trailing edge of the waveform, quickly deflects the beam back to the starting point.

===== PDF-side 188 =====

6-10
CRT GRATICULE
A GRATICULE was used in our previous discussion in figure 6-10. It is simply a calibrated scale
(made of clear plastic) of amplitude versus time that is placed on the face of the CRT.
The graticule can be used to determine the voltage of waveforms because the DEFLECTION
SENSITIVITY of a CRT is uniform throughout the vertical plane of the screen. Deflection sensitivity
states the number of inches, centimeters, or millimeters a beam will be deflected for each volt of potential
difference applied to the deflection plates. It is directly proportional to the physical length of the
deflection plates and their distance from the screen and inversely proportional to the distance between the
plates and to the second-anode voltage. Deflection sensitivity is a constant that is dependent on the
construction of the tube.
Deflection sensitivity for a given CRT might typically be 0.2 millimeters per volt. This means the
spot on the screen will be deflected 0.2 millimeters (about 0.008 inch) when a difference of 1 volt exists
between the plates. Sometimes the reciprocal of deflection sensitivity (called DEFLECTION FACTOR)
is given. The deflection factor for the example given would be 125 volts per inch (1/0.008).
 Q-13. What term is used to describe the reciprocal of deflection sensitivity of a scope?
In the above example, 125 volts applied between one set of plates would deflect the beam 1 inch on
the screen. This means that the deflection caused by small signals would likely not be observed. For this
reason, the deflection plates are connected to amplifiers that magnify the signals applied to the vertical
input of the scope.
Assume, for example, that a peak-to-peak value of a known voltage applied to the oscilloscope
indicates that each inch marking on the graticule is equal to 60 volts. Each of the 10 subdivisions will,
therefore, equal a value of 6 volts. Most oscilloscopes have ATTENUATOR controls to decrease or
GAIN controls to increase the strength of a signal before it is placed on the deflection plates. Attenuator
and gain settings must not be disturbed after the calibration has been made. For maximum accuracy, you
should recalibrate the graticule each time a voltage is to be measured.
CRT DESIGNATIONS
Cathode-ray tubes are identified by a tube number, such as 2AP1, 2BP4, or 5AP1A. The first number
identifies the diameter of the tube face. Typical diameters are 2 inches, 5 inches, and 7 inches. The first
letter designates the order in which a tube of a given diameter was registered. The letter-digit combination
indicates the type of phosphor (glowing material) used on the inside of the screen. Phosphor P1, which is
used in most oscilloscopes, produces a green light at medium PERSISTENCE. Persistence refers to the
length of time the phosphor glows after the electron beam is removed. P4 provides a white light and has a
short persistence. If a letter appears at the end, it signifies the number of the modification after the
original design.
OSCILLOSCOPE CONTROL COMPONENTS
Although the CRT is a highly versatile device, it cannot operate without control circuits. The type of
control circuits required depends on the purpose of the equipment in which the CRT is used.
There are many different types of oscilloscopes. They vary from relatively simple test instruments to
highly accurate laboratory models. Although oscilloscopes have different types of circuits, most can be

===== PDF-side 189 =====

6-11
divided into the basic sections shown in figure 6-13: (1) a CRT, (2) a group of control circuits that control
the waveform fed to the CRT, (3) a power supply, (4) sweep circuitry, and (5) deflection circuitry.
Figure 6-13.—Block diagram of an oscilloscope.
 Q-14. List the circuits that all oscilloscopes have in common.
Figure 6-14 is a drawing of the front panel of a dual-trace, general-purpose oscilloscope.
Oscilloscopes vary greatly in the number of controls and connectors. Usually, the more controls and
connectors, the more versatile the instrument. Regardless of the number, all oscilloscopes have similar
controls and connectors. Once you learn the fundamental operation of these common controls, you can
move with relative ease from one model of oscilloscope to another. Occasionally, controls that serve
similar functions will be labeled differently from one model to another. However, you will find that most
controls are logically grouped and that their names usually indicate their function.

===== PDF-side 190 =====

6-12
Figure 6-14.—Dual-trace oscilloscope.
The oscilloscope in figure 6-14 is called DUAL-TRACE because it can accept and display two
vertical signal inputs at the same time—usually for comparison of the two signals or one signal and a
reference signal. This scope can also accept just one input. In this case, it is used as a SINGLE-TRACE
OSCILLOSCOPE. For the following discussion, we will consider this to be a single-trace oscilloscope.
The oscilloscope in the figure is commonly used in the fleet. You are likely to use this one (model
AN/USM-425) or one very similar to it. Let's now look at the front panel controls.
COMPONENTS USED TO DISPLAY THE WAVEFORM
The CRT DISPLAY SCREEN is used to display the signal (figure 6-15). It allows you to make
accurate measurements using the vertical and horizontal graticules, as discussed earlier.

===== PDF-side 191 =====

6-13
Figure 6-15.—CRT display and graticule.
COMPONENTS USED TO ADJUST CRT DISPLAY QUALITY
The controls in figure 6-16 allow you to adjust for a clear signal display. They also allow you to
adjust the display position and magnify the horizontal trace by a factor of 10 (X10). Keep in mind that the
controls may be labeled differently from one model to another, depending on the manufacturer. Refer to
figure 6-16 as you study the control descriptions in the next paragraphs.

===== PDF-side 192 =====

6-14
Figure 6-16.—Quality adjustment for CRT display.
INTEN (Intensity) Control
The INTEN (intensity) control (sometimes called BRIGHTNESS) adjusts the brightness of the beam
on the CRT. The control is rotated in a clockwise direction to increase the intensity of the beam and
should be adjusted to a minimum brightness level that is comfortable for viewing.
FOCUS and ASTIG (Astigmatism) Controls
The FOCUS control adjusts the beam size. The ASTIG (astigmatism) control adjusts the beam
shape. The FOCUS and ASTIG controls are adjusted together to produce a small, clearly defined circular
dot. When displaying a line trace, you will use these same controls to produce a well-defined line. Figure
6-17, view A, shows an out-of-focus beam dot. View B shows the beam in focus. Views C and D show
out-of-focus and in-focus traces, respectively.

===== PDF-side 193 =====

6-15
Figure 6-17.—Effects of FOCUS and ASTIG (astigmatism) controls.
TRACE ROTATION Control
The TRACE ROTATION control (figure 6-16) allows for minor adjustments of the horizontal
portion of the trace so that you can align it with the horizontal lines on the graticule.
BEAM FINDER Control
Occasionally, the trace will actually be located off the CRT (up or down or to the left or right)
because of the orientation of the deflection plates. When pushed, the BEAM FINDER (figure 6-16) pulls
the beam onto the screen so that you can use the horizontal and vertical POSITION controls to center the
spot.
Horizontal and Vertical POSITION Controls
The horizontal and vertical POSITION controls (figure 6-16) are used to position the trace. Because
the graticule is often drawn to represent a graph, some oscilloscopes have the positioning controls labeled
to correspond to the X and Y axes of the graph. The X axis represents horizontal movement; the Y axis
represents the vertical movement. Figure 6-18 shows the effects of positioning controls on the trace.

===== PDF-side 194 =====

6-16
Figure 6-18.—Effects of horizontal and vertical controls.
In view A, the horizontal control has been adjusted to move the trace too far to the right; in view B,
the trace has been moved too far to the left. In view C, the vertical POSITION control (discussed later)
has been adjusted to move the trace too close to the top; in view D, the trace has been moved too close to
the bottom. View E (figure 6-18) shows the trace properly positioned.
10X MAG (Magnifier) Switch
The 10X MAG (magnifier) switch (figure 6-16) allows you to magnify the displayed signal by a
factor of 10 in the horizontal direction. This ability is important when you need to expand the signal to
evaluate it carefully.
COMPONENTS USED TO DETERMINE THE AMPLITUDE OF A SIGNAL
We will now discuss the dual-trace components of the scope. You will use these components to
determine the amplitude of a signal. Notice in figure 6-19 that the highlighted section at the upper left of
the scope looks just the same as the section at the lower left of the scope. This reveals the dual-trace
capability section of the scope. The upper left section is the CH (channel) 1 input and is the same as the
CH 2 input at the lower left. An input to both inputs at the same time will produce two independent traces
on the CRT and use the dual-trace capability of the scope.

===== PDF-side 195 =====

6-17
Figure 6-19.—Components that determine amplitude.
For purposes of this introductory discussion, we will present only CH (channel) 1. You should
realize that the information presented also applies to CH 2.
Vertical POSITION Control
The vertical POSITION control allows you to move the beam position up or down, as discussed
earlier.
Input Connector
The vertical input (or signal input) jack connects the signal to be examined to the vertical-deflection
amplifier. Some oscilloscopes may have two input jacks, one labeled AC and the other labeled DC. Other
models may have a single input jack with an associated switch, such as the AC GRD DC switch in figure
6-19. This switch is used to select the ac or dc connection. In the DC position, the signal is connected
directly to the vertical-deflection amplifier; in the AC position, the signal is first fed through a capacitor.
Figure 6-20 shows the schematic of one arrangement.

===== PDF-side 196 =====

6-18
Figure 6-20.—Vertical input arrangement.
The VERTICAL-DEFLECTION AMPLIFIER increases the amplitude of the input signal level
required for the deflection of the CRT beam. The deflection amplifier must not have any other effect on
the signal, such as changing the shape (called DISTORTION). Figure 6-21 shows the results of distortion
occurring in a deflection amplifier.
Figure 6-21.—Deflection amplifier distortion.
Attenuator Control
An amplifier can handle only a limited range of input amplitudes before it begins to distort the
signal. Signal distortion is prevented in oscilloscopes by the incorporation of circuitry that permits
adjustment of the input signal amplitude to a level that prevents distortion from occurring. This
adjustment is called the ATTENUATOR control in some scopes (VOLTS/DIV and VAR in figure 6-19).
This control extends the usefulness of the oscilloscope by enabling it to handle a wide range of signal
amplitudes.
The attenuator usually consists of two controls. One is a multiposition (VOLTS/DIV) control, and
the other is a variable (VAR) potentiometer. Each position of the control may be marked either as to the
amount of voltage required to deflect the beam a unit distance, such as VOLTS/DIV, or as to the amount
of attenuation (called the DEFLECTION FACTOR) given to the signal, such as 100, 10, or 1.
Suppose the .5 VOLTS/DIV position were selected. In this position, the beam would deflect
vertically 1 division for every 0.5 volts of applied signal. If a sine wave occupied 4 divisions peak-to-
peak, its amplitude would be 2 volts peak-to-peak (4 · 0.5), as shown in figure 6-22.

===== PDF-side 197 =====

6-19
Figure 6-22.—Sine wave attenuation.
The vertical attenuator control (VOLTS/DIV in figure 6-19) provides a means of adjusting the input
signal level to the amplifiers by steps. These steps are sequenced from low to high deflection factors. The
potentiometer control (VAR in figure 6-19) provides a means of fine, or variable, control between steps.
This control may be mounted separately, or it may be mounted on the attenuator control. When the
control is mounted separately, it is often marked as FINE GAIN or simply GAIN. When mounted on the
attenuator control, it is usually marked VARIABLE or VAR.
The variable control adds attenuation to the step that is selected. Since accurately calibrating a
potentiometer is difficult, the variable control is either left unmarked or the front panel is marked off in
some convenient units, such as 1-10 and 1-100. The attenuator control, however, can be accurately
calibrated. To do this, you turn off the variable control to remove it from the attenuator circuit. This
position is usually marked CAL (calibrate) on the panel, or an associated light indicates if the VAR
control is on or off. In figure 6-19, the light called UNCAL indicates the VAR control is in the
uncalibrated position.
COMPONENTS USED TO SELECT THE VERTICAL OPERATING MODE
As we discussed earlier, channel 1 is being used to discuss basic operating procedures for the
oscilloscope. Figure 6-23 shows how the vertical mode of operation is selected. The VERT MODE
section contains push-button switches that enable you to select channel 1, channel 2, and several other
vertical modes of operation. For the present discussion, note only that CH 1 is selected by these switches.

===== PDF-side 198 =====

6-20
Figure 6-23.—Vertical-deflection controls.
COMPONENTS USED TO DETERMINE PERIOD TIME OF THE DISPLAY
The TIME/DIV (figure 6-24) controls on the scope determine the period time of the displayed
waveform. As we discussed earlier, the sweep generator develops the sawtooth waveform that is applied
to the horizontal-deflection plates of the CRT. This sawtooth voltage causes the beam to move across the
screen. This trace (sometimes called SWEEP) sets the frequency of the TIME BASE of the oscilloscope.
The frequency of the time base is variable, which enables the oscilloscope to accept a wide range of input
frequencies. Again, two controls are used (figure 6-24). One is a multiposition switch (TIME/DIV) that
changes the frequency of the sweep generator in steps. The second control is a potentiometer (VAR) that
varies the frequency between steps. Each step on the TIME/DIV control is calibrated. The front panel has
markings that group the numbers into microseconds and milliseconds.

===== PDF-side 199 =====

6-21
Figure 6-24.—Period time of the waveform (TIME/DIV).
The potentiometer is labeled VAR, and the panel has an UNCAL indicator that lights when the VAR
control is in the variable position. When you desire to accurately measure the time of one cycle of an
input signal, turn the VAR control to the CAL position and turn the TIME/DIV switch to select an
appropriate time base. Suppose you choose the 10-microsecond position to display two cycles of an input
signal, as shown in figure 6-25. One cycle occupies 3 centimeters (small divisions) along the horizontal
axis. Each cm has a value of 10 microseconds. Therefore, the time for one cycle equals 30 microseconds
(3 · 10). Recall that the frequency for a signal may be found by using the following procedure:

===== PDF-side 200 =====

6-22
Figure 6-25.—Time measurement of a waveform (TIME/DIV).
In selecting a time base, you should select one that is lower in frequency than the input signal. If the
input signal requires 5 milliseconds to complete one cycle and the sawtooth is set for 0.5 milliseconds per
centimeter with a 10-centimeter-wide graticule, then approximately one cycle will be displayed. If the
time base is set for 1 millisecond per centimeter, approximately two cycles will be displayed. If the time
base is set at a frequency higher than the input frequency, only a portion of the input signal will be
displayed.
In the basic oscilloscope, the sweep generator runs continuously (FREE-RUNNING); in more
elaborate oscilloscopes, it is normally turned off. In the oscilloscope we’ re using as an example, the sweep
generator can be triggered by the input signal or by a signal from some other source. (Triggering will be
discussed later in this chapter.) This type of oscilloscope is called a triggered oscilloscope. The triggered
oscilloscope permits more accurate time measurements to be made and provides a more stable
presentation than the nontriggered-type oscilloscope.
On some oscilloscopes, you will find a 10 times (10X) magnification control. As previously
mentioned, this allows the displayed sweep to be magnified by a factor of 10.
 Q-15. When you select the time base to display a signal, should the time base be the same, higher, or
lower than the input signal?
COMPONENTS USED TO PROVIDE A STABLE DISPLAY
The triggering and level controls are used to synchronize the sweep generator with the input signal.
This provides a stationary waveform display. If the input signal and horizontal sweep generator are
unsynchronized, the pattern tends to jitter, making observations difficult.
The A TRIGGER controls at the lower right of the scope (figure 6-26) are used to control the
stability of the oscilloscope CRT display. They are provided to permit you to select the source, polarity,
and amplitude of the trigger signal. These controls, labeled A TRIGGER, LEVEL, SOURCE, and
SLOPE, are described in the following paragraphs.

===== PDF-side 201 =====

6-23
Figure 6-26.—Components that control stability.
SOURCE Control
The SOURCE control allows you to select the appropriate source of triggering. You can select input
signals from channel 1 or 2, the line (60 hertz), or an external input.
TRIGGER LEVEL/SLOPE Controls
The LEVEL control allows you to select the amplitude point of the trigger signal at which the sweep
is triggered. The SLOPE lets you select the negative or positive slope of the trigger signal at which the
sweep is triggered.
The TRIGGER LEVEL (mounted with the TRIGGER SLOPE on some scopes) determines the
voltage level required to trigger the sweep. For example, in the TRIGGER modes, the trigger is obtained
from the signal to be displayed. The setting of the LEVEL control determines the amplitude point of the
input waveform that will be displayed at the start of the sweep.
Figure 6-27 shows some of the displays for a channel that can be obtained for different TRIGGER
LEVEL and TRIGGER SLOPE settings. The level is zero and the slope is positive in view A; view B also
shows a zero level but a negative slope selection. View C shows the effects of a positive trigger level
setting and positive trigger slope setting; view D displays a negative trigger level setting with a positive
trigger slope setting. Views E and F have negative slope settings. The difference is that view E has a
positive trigger level setting, whereas F has a negative trigger level setting.

===== PDF-side 202 =====

6-24
Figure 6-27.—Effects of SLOPE and TRIGGER LEVEL controls.
In most scopes, an automatic function of the trigger circuitry allows a free-running trace without a
trigger signal. However, when a trigger signal is applied, the circuit reverts to the triggered mode of
operation and the sweep is no longer free running. This action provides a trace when no signal is applied.
Synchronization is also used to cause a free-running condition without a trigger signal.
Synchronization is not the same as triggering. TRIGGERING refers to a specific action or event that
initiates an operation. Without this event, the operation would not occur. In the case of the triggered
sweep, the sweep will not be started until a trigger is applied. Each succeeding sweep must have a trigger
before a sweep commences. SYNCHRONIZATION, however, means that an operation or event is
brought into step with a second operation.
A sweep circuit that uses synchronization instead of triggering will cause a previously free-running
sweep to be locked in step with the synchronizing signal. The TRIGGER LEVEL control setting can be
increased until synchronization occurs; but, until that time, an unstable pattern will appear on the CRT
face.
COUPLING Section
The COUPLING section allows you to select from four positions: AC, LF REJ, HF REJ, and DC.
The AC position incorporates a coupling capacitor to block any dc component. The LF and HF REJ
positions reject low- and high-frequency components, respectively. The DC position provides direct

===== PDF-side 203 =====

6-25
coupling to the trigger circuits. This is useful when you wish to view only the LF or HF component of a
signal.
COMPONENTS USED TO SELECT SCOPE TRIGGERING
The TRIG MODE section in figure 6-28 allows for automatic triggering or normal triggering. In
AUTO (automatic), the triggering will be free-running in the absence of a proper trigger input or will
trigger on the input signal at frequencies above 20 hertz. In NORM (normal), the vertical channel input
will trigger the sweep.
Figure 6-28.—Components to select triggering.
COMPONENTS USED TO SELECT HORIZONTAL-DEFLECTION MODE
For the present, notice only that the HORIZ DISPLAY (horizontal display) in figure 6-29 can be
controlled by the TIME/DIV switch. Other switches in this section will be explained later in this chapter.

===== PDF-side 204 =====

6-26
Figure 6-29.—Components to select mode of horizontal deflection.
COMPONENTS USED TO CALIBRATE THE PROBE OF THE SCOPE
In figure 6-30, you can see the components used to calibrate the test probe on the scope. A 1-volt,
2-kilohertz square wave signal is provided for you to adjust the probe for an accurate square wave and to
check the vertical gain of the scope. You adjust the probe with a screwdriver, as shown in the figure.

===== PDF-side 205 =====

6-27
Figure 6-30.—Components to calibrate probe.
SIMILARITIES AMONG OSCILLOSCOPES
The oscilloscope you use may differ in some respects from the one just covered. Controls and
circuits may be identified by different names. Many of the circuits will be designed differently. However,
all the functions will be fundamentally the same. Before using an oscilloscope, you should carefully study
the operator’ s manual that comes with it.
USING THE OSCILLOSCOPE
An oscilloscope can be used for several different types of measurements, such as time, phase,
frequency, and amplitude of observed waveforms. Earlier in this chapter, you learned that the
oscilloscope is most often used to study the shapes of waveforms when the performance of equipment is
being checked. The patterns on the scope are compared with the signals that should appear at test points
(according to the technical manual for the equipment under test). You can then determine if the
equipment is operating according to peak performance standards.
 Q-16. Oscilloscopes are used to measure what quantities?

===== PDF-side 206 =====

6-28
TURNING ON THE SCOPE
Before turning on the scope, make sure it is plugged into the proper power source. This may seem
obvious, but many technicians have turned all knobs on the front panel out of adjustment before they
noticed that the power cord was not plugged in. On some scopes, the POWER switch is part of the
INTEN (intensity) control. Turn or pull the knob until you hear a click or a panel light comes on (figure
6-31). Let the scope warm up for a few minutes so that voltages in all of the circuits become stabilized.
Figure 6-31.—Components to energize scope.
OBTAINING A PATTERN ON THE SCREEN
When adjusting a pattern onto the screen, adjust the INTEN (intensity) and FOCUS controls for a
bright, sharp line. If other control settings are such that a dot instead of a line appears, turn down the
intensity to prevent burning a hole in the screen coating. Because of the different speeds at which the
beam travels across the screen, brightness and sharpness will vary at various frequency settings. For this
reason, you may have to adjust the INTEN and FOCUS controls occasionally while taking readings.
NUMBER OF CYCLES ON THE SCREEN
Because distortion may exist at the beginning and end of a sweep, it is better to place two or three
cycles of the waveform on the screen instead of just one, as shown in figure 6-32.

===== PDF-side 207 =====

6-29
Figure 6-32.—Proper signal presentation.
The center cycle of three cycles provides you with an undistorted waveform in its correct phase. The
center of a two-cycle presentation will appear inverted, but will be undistorted. To place waveforms on
the CRT in this manner, you must understand the relationship between horizontal and vertical
frequencies. The relationship between the frequencies of the waveform on the vertical plates and the
sawtooth on the horizontal plates determines the number of cycles on the screen, as shown in figure 6-33.
Figure 6-33.—Vertical versus horizontal relationship.

===== PDF-side 208 =====

6-30
The horizontal sweep frequency of the scope should always be kept lower than, or equal to, the
waveform frequency; it should never be higher. If the sweep frequency were higher, only a portion of the
waveform would be presented on the screen.
If, for example, three cycles of the waveform were to be displayed on the screen, the sweep
frequency would be set to one-third the frequency of the input signal. If the input frequency were 12,000
hertz, the sweep frequency would be set at 4,000 hertz for a three-cycle scope presentation. For two
cycles, the sweep frequency would be set at 6,000 hertz. If a single cycle were desired, the setting would
be the same as the input frequency, 12,000 hertz.
DUAL-TRACE OPERATION
The information presented in the previous sections served as a general overview of basic single-trace
oscilloscope operation using one channel and operating controls. Now, you will be introduced to DUAL-
TRACE operation.
Dual-trace operation allows you to view two independent signal sources as a dual display on a single
CRT. This operation allows an accurate means of making amplitude, phase, time displacement, or
frequency comparisons and measurements between two signals.
A dual-trace oscilloscope should not be confused with a dual-beam oscilloscope. Dual-beam
oscilloscopes produce two separate electron beams on a single scope, which can be individually or jointly
controlled. Dual-trace refers to a single beam in a CRT that is shared by two channels.
 Q-17. Scopes that produce two channels on a single CRT with a single beam are referred to as what
types of scopes?
Components Used to Select Vertical-Deflection Operating Mode
The VERT MODE controls (figure 6-34) allow you to select the operating mode of the scope for
vertical deflection.

===== PDF-side 209 =====

6-31
Figure 6-34.—Components to select vertical operating mode.
CH 1 AND CH 2.—These controls allow you to display signals applied to either channel 1 or
channel 2, as discussed earlier.
TRIGGER VIEW.—The TRIG VIEW allows you to display the signal that is actually used to
trigger the display. (Triggering was discussed earlier.)
ALT.—The ALT (alternate) mode (figure 6-35) of obtaining a dual trace uses the techniques of
GATING between sweeps. This control allows the signal applied to channel 1 to be displayed in its
entirety; then, channel 2 is displayed in its entirety. This method of display is continued alternately
between the two channels. At slow speeds, one trace begins to fade while the other channel is being gated.
Consequently, the ALT mode is not used for slow sweep speeds. The CHOP mode, shown in figure 6-36
(explained next), will not produce a satisfactory dual sweep at high speeds. The ALT mode is deficient at
low speeds. Therefore, both are used on dual-trace oscilloscopes to complement each other and give the
scope a more dynamic range of operation.

===== PDF-side 210 =====

6-32
Figure 6-35.—ALT (alternate) mode.
Figure 6-36.—CHOP mode.
The output dc voltage references on each of the amplifiers are independently adjustable. Therefore,
the beam will be deflected by different amounts on each channel if the voltage reference is different at
each amplifier output. The output voltage from each amplifier is applied to the deflection plates through
the gate. The gate is actually an electronic switch. In this application, it is commonly referred to as a
BEAM SWITCH.
Switching is controlled by a high-frequency multivibrator in the CHOP mode. That is, the gate
selects the output of one channel and then the other at a high-frequency rate (1200 kilohertz in most
oscilloscopes). Because the switching time is very short in a good-quality oscilloscope, the resultant
display is two sets of horizontally dashed lines, as shown in figure 6-37, view A.

===== PDF-side 211 =====

6-33
Figure 6-37.—Displaying CHOP mode.
Dashed line CH 1 is the output of one channel, while line CH 2 is the output of the other. The trace
moves from left to right because of the sawtooth waveform applied to the horizontal plates. A more
detailed analysis shows that the beam moves from CH 1 to CH 2 while the gate is connected to the output
from one channel. Then, when the gate samples the output of the CH 2 during time 3 to 4, the beam is at a
different vertical LOCATION. (This is assuming that CH 2 is at a different voltage reference.) The beam
continues in the sequence 5 to 6, 7 to 8, 9 to 10, and 11 to 12 through the rest of one horizontal sweep.
When the chopping frequency is much higher than the horizontal sweep frequency, the number of
dashes will be very large. For example, if the chopping occurs at 100 kilohertz and the sweep frequency is
1 kilohertz, each horizontal line would then appear as a series of closely spaced dots, as shown in figure
6-37 view B. As the sweep frequency becomes lower compared to the chopping frequency, the display
will show apparently continuous traces; therefore, the CHOP mode is used at low sweep rates.
When signals are applied to the channel amplifiers (view A of figure 6-38), the outputs are changed
according to the triggering signal (view B). The resultant pattern (view C) on the screen provides a time-
base presentation of the signals of each channel.

===== PDF-side 212 =====

6-34
Figure 6-38.—Dual-channel display in CHOP mode.
ADD.—The ADD switch (shown earlier in figure 6-34) algebraically adds the two signals of
channels 1 and 2 together for display.
Other Dual-Trace Oscilloscope Controls
Most dual-trace oscilloscopes have both an A and B time base for horizontal sweep control. Notice
in the upper right corner on our example scope (figure 6-34) the COUPLING, SOURCE LEVEL, and
SLOPE controls. These serve the same function as did those same controls in the A time-base section of
the scope. The B time base is selected using the same A and B TIME/DIV control (pull out outer knob).
The use of the B time base is controlled by the HORIZ DISPLAY section discussed earlier in the A
time-base section. However, inexperienced technicians generally do not use A and B time bases together
in the MIXED, A INTEN (intensified), and B D'LYD (delayed) settings. These controls are fully
explained in the applicable technical manuals; therefore, we will not discuss the controls in this chapter.
Figure 6-39 is a block diagram of a basic dual-trace oscilloscope without the power supplies.

===== PDF-side 213 =====

6-35
Figure 6-39.—Basic dual-trace oscilloscope block diagram.
ACCESSORIES
The basic dual-trace oscilloscope has one gun assembly and two vertical channels. However, there
are many variations. The horizontal sweep channels vary somewhat from equipment to equipment. Some
have one time-base circuit and others have two. These two are interdependent in some oscilloscopes and
in others they are independently controlled. Also, most modern general-purpose oscilloscopes are
constructed of modules. That is, most of the vertical circuitry is contained in a removable plug-in unit,
and most of the horizontal circuitry is contained in another plug-in unit.
The main frame of the oscilloscope is often adapted for many other special applications by the
design of a variety of plug-in assemblies. This modular feature provides much greater versatility than in a
single-trace oscilloscope. For instance, to analyze the characteristics of a transistor, you can replace the
dual-trace, plug-in module with a semiconductor curve-tracer plug-in module.
Other plug-in modules available with some oscilloscopes are high-gain, wide-bandwidth amplifiers;
differential amplifiers; spectrum analyzers; physiological monitors; and other specialized units. Therefore,
the dual-trace capability is a function of the type of plug-in unit that is used with some oscilloscopes.
To get maximum usefulness from an oscilloscope, you must have a means of connecting the desired
signal to the oscilloscope input. Aside from cable connections between any equipment output and the
oscilloscope input, a variety of probes are available to assist in monitoring signals at almost any point in a
circuit. The more common types include 1-TO-1 PROBES, ATTENUATION PROBES, and CURRENT
PROBES. Each of these probes may be supplied with several different tips to allow measurement of
signals on any type of test point. Figure 6-40 shows some of the more common probe tips.

===== PDF-side 214 =====

6-36
Figure 6-40.—Common probe tips.
In choosing the probe to use for a particular measurement, you must consider such factors as circuit
loading, signal amplitude, and scope sensitivity.
The 1-to-1 probe offers little or no attenuation of the signal under test and is, therefore, useful for
measuring low-level signals. However, circuit loading with the 1-to-1 probe may be a problem. The
impedance at the probe tip is the same as the input impedance of the oscilloscope.
An attenuator probe has an internal high-value resistor in series with the probe tip. This gives the
probe a higher input impedance than that of the oscilloscope. Because of the higher input impedance, the
probe can measure high-amplitude signals that would overdrive the vertical amplifier if connected
directly to the oscilloscope. Figure 6-41 shows a schematic representation of a basic attenuation probe.
The 9-megohm resistor in the probe and the 1-megohm input resistor of the oscilloscope form a 10-to-1
voltage divider.
Figure 6-41.—Basic attenuation probe.

===== PDF-side 215 =====

6-37
Since the probe resistor is in series, the oscilloscope input resistance is 10 megohms when the probe
is used. Thus, using the attenuator probe with the oscilloscope causes less circuit loading than using a 1-
to-1 probe.
Before using an attenuator probe for measurement of high-frequency signals or for fast-rising
waveforms, you must adjust the probe compensating capacitor (C1) according to instructions in the
applicable technical manual. Some probes will have an IMPEDANCE EQUALIZER in the end of the
cable that attaches to the oscilloscope. The impedance equalizer, when adjusted according to
manufacturer’ s instructions, assures proper impedance matching between the probe and oscilloscope. An
improperly adjusted impedance equalizer will result in erroneous measurements, especially when you are
measuring high frequencies or fast-rising signals.
More information on oscilloscope hook-ups can be found in Electronics Information Maintenance
Books (EIMB), Test Methods and Practices.
Special current probes have been designed to use the electromagnetic fields produced by a current as
it travels through a conductor. This type of probe is clamped around a conductor without disconnecting it
from the circuit. The current probe is electrically insulated from the conductor, but the magnetic fields
about the conductor induce a potential in the current probe that is proportional to the current through the
conductor. Thus, the vertical deflection of the oscilloscope display will be directly proportional to the
current through the conductor.
SPECTRUM ANALYZER
The spectrum analyzer is used to examine the frequency spectrum of radar transmissions, local
oscillators, test sets, and any other equipment operating within its testable frequency range. With
experience, you will be able to determine definite areas of malfunctioning components within equipment.
Successful spectrum analysis depends on the proper operation of a spectrum analyzer and your ability to
correctly interpret the displayed frequencies. Although there are many types of spectrum analyzers, we
will use the Tektronix, Model 492 for our discussion.
The spectrum analyzer accepts an electrical input signal and displays the frequency and amplitude of
the signal on a CRT. On the vertical, or Y, axis, the amplitude is plotted. The frequency would then be
found on the horizontal, or X, axis. The overall pattern of this display (figure 6-42) indicates the
proportion of power present at the various frequencies within the spectrum (fundamental frequency with
sideband frequencies).

===== PDF-side 216 =====

6-38
Figure 6-42.—Spectrum analyzer pattern.
BASIC FUNCTIONAL DESCRIPTION
The model 492 analyzer can be divided into six basic sections, as follows:
• Converter section;
• Intermediate frequency (IF) section;
• Display section;
• Frequency control section;
• Digital control section; and
• Power and cooling section.
Converter Section
The converter section actually consists of three frequency converters, made up of a mixer, local
oscillator (LO), and required filters. Only one frequency can be converted at a time and pass through the
filters to reach the next converter. The analysis frequency can, however, be changed by altering the
frequency of the LO and adjusting the FREQUENCY control knob.
FIRST CONVERTER.—The first (front end) converter changes the input signal to a usable IF
signal that will either be 829 MHz or 2072 MHz. The IF signal to be produced is dependent on which
measurement band selection is currently being used. The 829 MHz IF signal will be selected for bands 2
through 4, while the 2072 MHz IF signal is selected for bands 1 and 5 through 11.
 Q-18. The first converter is also known by what other name?

===== PDF-side 217 =====

6-39
SECOND CONVERTER.—The second converter actually contains two converters. Only one of
these two converters in this section is ever operational, and selected as a result of the measurement band
currently being used. The selected converter will convert the frequency received from the first converter
to a usable (110 MHz) IF signal, which is then provided to the third converter.
THIRD CONVERTER.—This converter takes the 110 MHz IF signal, amplifies it, and then
converts it to the final IF of 10 MHz. This signal, in turn, is then passed on to the IF section.
IF Section
The IF section receives the final IF signal and uses it to establish the system resolution by using
selective filtering. System resolution is selected under microcomputer control among five bandwidths (1
MHz, 100 kHz, 10 kHz, 1 kHz, and 100 Hz). The gain for all bands are then leveled and logarithmically
amplified. This is done so that each division of signal change on the CRT display remains equal in change
to every other division on the CRT. For example, in the 10-dB-per-division mode, each division of
change is equal to a 10 dB difference, regardless of whether the signal appears at the top or bottom of the
CRT. The signal needed to produce the video output to the display section is then detected and provided.
Display Section
The display section provides a representative display of the input signal on the CRT. It accomplishes
this by performing the following functions:
• Receives the video signals from the IF section and processes these signals to adjust the vertical
drive of the CRT;
• Receives the sweep voltages and processes these signals to produce the horizontal CRT drive
plate voltage;
• Receives character data information and generates CRT plate drive signals to display alpha and
numeric characters on the CRT;
• Receives control levels from the front panel beam controls and generates unblanking signals to
control display presence, brightness, and focus.
The vertical deflection of the beam is increased as the output of the amplitude detector increases. The
horizontal position is controlled by the frequency control section and is the frequency analyzed at that
instant. The beam sweeps from left to right, low to high frequencies during its analysis. During this
analysis, any time a signal is discovered, a vertical deflection will show the strength of the signal at the
horizontal position that is the frequency. This results in a display of amplitude as a function of frequency.
Frequency Control Section
The frequency control section accomplishes the tuning of the first and second LOs within the
converter section. The frequency immediately being analyzed is controlled by the current frequencies of
the LOs. To analyze another frequency, you must change an LO frequency to allow the new frequency to
be converted to a 10 MHz signal by the converter section. Periodically, the unit sweeps and analyzes a
frequency range centered on the frequency set by the FREQUENCY knob. Adjusting the FREQUENCY
knob will cause the LOs to be tuned to the new frequency. Only the LOs of the first two converters can be
changed to vary the frequency being analyzed.

===== PDF-side 218 =====

6-40
Digital Control Section
All the internal functions are controlled from the front panel through the use of a built-in
microcomputer. The microcomputer uses an internal bus to receive or produce all communication or
control to any section of the analyzer.
Power and Cooling Section
The main power supply provides almost all the regulated voltages required to operate the unit. The
display section provides the high voltage necessary for CRT operation.
The cooling system allows fresh cool air to be routed to all sections of the unit in proportion to the
heat that is generated by each section.
SPECTRUM ANALYZER FRONT PANEL CONTROLS, INDICATORS, AND CONNECTORS
This section will describe the function of the front panel controls, indicators, and connectors. For a
complete description of each function, refer to table 6-1 while reviewing the front panel in figure 6-43.
The numbers located in column 1 of table 6-1 equate to the same numbers found on the front panel of
figure 6-43. Because most operational functions of this spectrum analyzer are microprocessor-controlled,
they are switch-selected rather than adjusted.
Figure 6-43.—Spectrum analyzer front panel controls, indicators, and connectors.

===== PDF-side 219 =====

6-41
Table 6-1.—Description of Front Panel Controls, Indicators, and Connectors
ITEM FUNCTION DESCRIPTION
1 INTENSITY This knob controls the brightness of the CRT trace and the CRT readout display.
The focus is electronically adjusted.
2 READOUT This push button switches the readout display on and off. All spectrum analyzer
parameters are displayed except TIME/DIV. The brightness for this display is
proportional to the trace brightness and can be readjusted on internal controls only
by a qualified technician.
3 GRATILLUM This push button switches the graticule light on and off.
4 BASELINE CLIP This push button, when activated, clips (subdues) the intensity at the baseline.
5 TRIGGERING This area allows one of four triggering modes to be selected by push buttons that
illuminate when active. When any of these four are selected, the others are
canceled.
5a FREE RUN When activated, the sweep is free-running without regard to trigger signals.
5b INT When activated, the sweep is triggered by any signal at the left edge of the display
with an amplitude of 1.0 divisions of the graticule or more.
5c LINE When activated, a sample of the ac power line voltage is used to trigger the sweep.
5d EXT When selected, the sweep is triggered by an external signal (applied through the
back panel IN HORZ/TRIG connector) between a minimum and maximum of 0.5
and 50 volt peak.
6 SINGLE SWEEP This push button, plus a ready indicator (No. 7), provides the single sweep
operation. When this operation is selected, one sweep is initiated after the sweep
circuit has been triggered. Pushing this button does not cancel the other trigger
modes. When single sweep is first selected, the present sweep is aborted, but the
sweep circuit is not yet armed. An additional push is required to initially arm the
sweep. The button must be pushed again to rearm the sweep circuit each time the
sweep has run. To cancel single sweep, you must select one of the four trigger
mode selections.
7 READY When single sweep is selected, this indicator lights while the sweep circuit is
armed and ready for a trigger signal. The indicator stays lit until the sweep is
complete.
8 MANUAL SCAN When the TIME/DIV (No. 9c) selector is in the MNL position, this control will
manually vary the CRT beam across the full horizontal axis of the display.
9 TIME/DIV Is used to select sweep rates from 5 /G86/G72/G70/G18/G71/G76/G89/G3/G87/G82/G3/G21/G19/G3/G86/G72/G70/G18/G71/G76/G89/G17/G3/G55/G75/G76/G86/G3/G86/G90/G76/G87/G70/G75/G3/G68/G79/G86/G82
selects AUTO, EXT, and MNL modes.
9a AUTO In this position, the sweep rate is selected by the microcomputer to maintain a
calibrated display for any FREQ SPAN/DIV, RESOLUTION, and VIDEO
FILTER combination.
9b EXT When selected, this control allows an external input source to be used with the
sweep rates.
9c MNL When selected, this control is used in conjunction with No. 8 (see MANUAL
SCAN, No. 8).
10 FREQUENCY This control is manually turned to allow you to tune to the center frequency.
11 FREQUENCY
RANGE (band)
These two push buttons are used to shift the center frequency up or down.
Frequency range on the band is displayed on the CRT readout.
12 F This control is used for measuring the frequency difference between signals. When
selected, the frequency readout goes to zero. It will then read out the deviation
from this reference to the next frequency desired as the FREQUENCY knob is
adjusted.

===== PDF-side 220 =====

6-42
Table 6-1.—Description of Front Panel Controls, Indicators, and Connectors—Continued
ITEM FUNCTION DESCRIPTION
13 CAL When this is activated, the frequency readout can be calibrated to center the center
frequency by adjusting the FREQUENCY control for the correct reading. When
accomplished, you should deactivate the CAL mode.
14 DEGAUSS When this button is pressed, current through the local oscillator system is reduced
to zero in order to minimize magnetism build-up around the LOs. This is done to
enhance the center frequency display and amplitude accuracy. You should do this
after every significant frequency change and before calibrating the center
frequency.
15 IDENTIFY 500 kHz
ONLY
The signal identify feature can become functional only when the FREQ SPAN/DIV
is set to 500 kHz. When activated (button lit), true signals will change in amplitude
on every sweep. Images and spurious response signals will shift horizontally or go
completely off the CRT display. To ensure that the signal is changing amplitude
every sweep, you should decrease the sweep rate so that each sweep can be
analyzed.
16 PHASE LOCK When this control is activated (button lit), it will reduce residual FM when narrow
spans are selected. In narrow spans, the phase lock can be turned off or back on by
pressing the button. Switching the PHASE LOCK off may cause the signal to shift
position. In narrow spans, the signal could shift off the display; however, it will
usually return to its phase locked position after a few moments. The
microcomputer automatically selects PHASE LOCK for a span/division of 50 kHz
or below in bands 1 through 3, 100 kHz or below for band 3, and 200 kHz for
bands 5 and above.
17 AUTO
RESOLUTION
This push button, when activated, will automatically select the bandwidth for
FREQ SPAN/DIV, TIME/DIV, and VIDEO FILTER. The internal microcomputer
selects the bandwidth to maintain a calibrated display. This can be checked by
changing the FREQ SPAN/DIV and observing the bandwidth change on the
display.
This is a continuous detent control that selects the frequency span/div. The
span/div currently selected is displayed on the CRT. The range of the span/div
selection is dependent on the frequency band selected:
BAND
    1-3 (0-7.1GHz)
   4-5 (5.4-21GHz)
    6 (18-26GHz)
    7-8 (26-60GHz)
    9 (60-90GHz)
10 (90-140GHz)
11 (140-220GHz)
NARROW SPAN
  10kHz/Div
  50 kHz/Div
  50 kHz/Div
100 kHz/Div
200 kHz/Div
500 kHz/Div
500 kHz/Div
WIDE SPAN
200MHz/Div
500 MHz/Div
    1 GHz/Div
    2 GHz/Div
    2 GHz/Div
    5 GHz/Div
      10 GHz/Div
18 FREQ
SPAN/DIV
Two additional bands are provided: full band (max span) and 0 Hz span. When
max span is selected, the span displayed is the full band. When zero span is
selected, time/div is read out instead of span/div.
19 RESOLUTION
BANDWIDTH
This is also a continuous detent control that selects the resolution bandwidth. The
bandwidth is shown on the CRT display. The range of adjustment is from 1 kHz to
1 MHz in decade steps. When you change the resolution bandwidth with this
control, it will deactivate the AUTO RESOLUTION.
20 VERTICAL
DISPLAY
These four push buttons select the display mode. The scale factor can be seen on
the CRT display.
20a 10dB/DIV When this is activated, the dynamic range of the display is calibrated to 80 dB,
with each major graticule representing 10 dB.

===== PDF-side 221 =====

6-43
Table 6-1.—Description of Front Panel Controls, Indicators, and Connectors—Continued
ITEM FUNCTION DESCRIPTION
20b 2dB/DIV When activated, this will increase the resolution so that each major graticule
division represents 2 dB.
20c LIN When activated, this selects a linear display between zero volts (bottom graticule
line) and the reference level (top graticule line) scaled in volts/division (see
REFERENCE LEVEL, No. 23a).
20d PULSE
STRETCHER
When selected, this increases the fall time of the pulse signals so that very narrow
pulses in a line spectrum display can be observed.
21 VIDEO FILTER One of two (NARROW OR WIDE) filters can be activated to reduce video
bandwidth and high-frequency components for display noise averaging. The
narrow filter is approximately 1/300th of the selected resolution bandwidth with
the wide filter being 1/30th the bandwidth. Activating either one will cancel the
other. To disable, completely switch filter off.
22 DIGITAL
STORAGE
Five push buttons and ON control operate the digital storage functions. With none
of the push buttons activated, the display will not be stored.
22a VIEW A, VIEW B When either or both of these push buttons are selected, the push button illuminates,
and the contents of memory A and/or memory B are displayed. With Save A mode
off, data in a memory is interlaced with data from B memory.
22b B-SAVE A When activated, the differential (arithmetic difference) of data in B memory and
the saved data in memory A are displayed. SAVE A mode is activated and SAVE
A button will be lit.
22c MAX HOLD When activated, the digital storage memory retains the maximum signal amplitude
at each memory location. This permits visual monitoring of signal frequency and
amplitude at each memory location over an indefinite period of time. This feature
is used to measure drift, stability, and record peak amplitude.
22d PEAK/AVERAGE This control selects the amplitude at which the vertical display is either peak
detected or averaged. Video signals above the level set by the control (shown by a
horizontal line or cursor) are peak detected and stored while video signals below
the cursor are digitally averaged and stored.
23 MIN RF ATTEN This control is used to set the minimum amount of RF attenuation. Changing RF
LEVEL will not decrease RF attenuation below that set by the MIN RF ATTEN
selector.
23a REFERENCE
LEVEL
This is a continuous control that requests the microcomputer to change the
reference level one step for each detent. In the 10 dB/DIV vertical-display mode,
the steps are 1 dB or 0.25 dB if the FINE mode (No. 26) is selected.
23b MIN RF ATTEN DB This selects the lowest value of attenuation allowed: Actual RF attenuation is set
by the microcomputer according to the logarithm selected by the MIN NOISE/MIN
DISTORTION (No. 27) button. If RF attenuation is increased by changing MIN
RF ATTEN, the microcomputer automatically changes IF gain to maintain the
current reference level.
24 UNCAL This indicator lights when the display amplitude is no longer calibrated (selecting a
sweep rate that is not compatible with the frequency span/div and resolution
bandwidth).
25 LOG and AMPL
CAL
These adjustments calibrate the dynamic range of the display. The LOG calibrates
any logarithm gain dB/Div, and the AMPL calibrates the reference level of the top
graticule line at the top of the display.
26 FINE When activated, the REFERENCE LEVEL (No. 23a) switches in 1 dB increments
for 10 dB/Div display mode, 0.25 dB for 2 dB/Div, and volts 1 dB for LIN display
mode.

===== PDF-side 222 =====

6-44
Table 6-1.—Description of Front Panel Controls, Indicators, and Connectors—Continued
ITEM FUNCTION DESCRIPTION
27 MIN
NOISE/MIN
DISTORTION
This selects one of two logarithms used to control attenuator and IF gain. MIN
NOISE (button illuminated) reduces the noise level by reducing attenuation and IF
gain 10 dB. MIN DISTORTION (button not illuminated) reduces distortion to its
minimum. To observe any changes, the RF attenuation displayed on the CRT
readout must be 10 dB higher than that set by the MIN RF ATTEN selector.
28 POWER This is a pull switch that turns power on when extended.
29 RF INPUT This is a 50 ohm coaxial input jack used to input signals of 21GHz or below. The
maximum nondestructive input signal level that can be applied to this input is +13
dBm or 30 mW. Signals above 10 dB may cause signal compression.
30 POSITION These controls are used to position the display on the horizontal and vertical axes.
31 CAL OUT This is an output jack that has a calibrated 20 dBm 100 MHz signal, with frequency
markers spaced 100 MHz apart. The calibrated 100 MHz marker is used as a
reference for calibrating the reference level and log scale. The combination of 100
MHz markers is used to check span and frequency readout accuracy.
32 OUTPUT 1ST AND
2ND LO
These jacks provide access to the output of the respective LOs. The jacks must
have 50 ohm terminators installed when not connected to an external device.
33 EXTERNAL MIXER When the EXTERNAL MIXER button is activated, bias is provided out the
EXTERNAL MIXER port for external waveguide mixers. The IF output from the
EXTERNAL MIXER is then applied through the EXTERNAL MIXER port to the
second converter for use.
34 PEAKING This control varies the mixer bias for external mixers in the EXTERNAL MIXER
mode.  This control should be adjusted for maximum signal amplitude.
NORMAL INDICATIONS UPON POWER ON
With power applied (power knob pulled out), the spectrum analyzer will automatically (upon
microcomputer control) go into the following conditions. If you do not find these indications, there is a
probably a problem with the unit.
• Vertical display: 10 dB/div;
• Frequency: 0.00 MHz;
• REF level: +30 dB;
• RF attenuation: 60 dB;
• Frequency range: 0.0 to 1.8 GHz;
• Auto resolution: 1 MHz;
• Resolution bandwidth: 1 MHz;
• Freq Span/Div: Max;
• Triggering: Free run;
• Readout: On;
• Digital storage: View A/View B On;

===== PDF-side 223 =====

6-45
• All other indicators off or inactive.
SUMMARY
Now that we have completed this chapter, we will briefly review the more important points covered.
A CATHODE-RAY TUBE (CRT) is used in an oscilloscope to display the waveforms.
The CRT used in oscilloscopes consists of an ELECTRON GUN, a DEFLECTION SYSTEM,
and a FLUORESCENT SCREEN.
The ELECTRON BEAM in an oscilloscope is allowed to be controlled in any direction by means
of HORIZONTAL- and VERTICAL-DEFLECTION PLATES.
VERTICAL-DEFLECTION PLATES are used to show AMPLITUDE of a signal.
HORIZONTAL-DEFLECTION PLATES are used to show TIME and/or FREQUENCY
relationship.
A GRATICULE is a calibrated scale of AMPLITUDE VERSUS TIME that is placed on the face
of the CRT.
A DUAL-TRACE OSCILLOSCOPE is designed to accept two vertical inputs at the same time. It
uses a single beam of electrons shared by two channels.
The SPECTRUM ANALYZER accepts an electrical input signal and displays the signal’ s
frequency and amplitude on a CRT display.
ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS Q1. THROUGH Q18.
 A-1. Control grid.
 A-2. The first anode.
 A-3. Because they bend electron streams in much the same manner that optical lenses bend light rays.
 A-4. It accelerates the electrons emerging from the first anode.
 A-5. A greater deflection angle.
 A-6. A greater deflection angle.
 A-7. Higher potential.
 A-8. Slower beam.
 A-9. Amplitude and time.
 A-10. Amplitude.
 A-11. Time and/or frequency relationships.

===== PDF-side 224 =====

6-46
 A-12. To permit wide-angle deflection of the beam.
 A-13. Deflection factor.
 A-14. A CRT, a group of control circuits, power supply, sweep circuitry, and deflection circuitry.
 A-15. Lower.
 A-16. Amplitude, phase, time, and frequency.
 A-17. Dual-trace oscilloscopes.
 A-18. Front end.

===== PDF-side 225 =====

AI-1
APPENDIX I
GLOSSARY
ABSORPTION WAVEMETER—An instrument used to measure audio frequencies.
AMMETER—A meter used to measure current.
BACK RESISTANCE—The larger resistance value observed when you are checking the forward
resistance of a semiconductor.
BAND PASS FILTER—A tuned circuit that passes only a specific frequency.
BAND REJECT FILTER—A tuned circuit that does not pass a specified band of frequencies.
BARRETTER—A type of bolometer characterized by an increase in resistance as the dissipated power
rises.
BEAT FREQUENCY—The difference between the oscillator frequency and the unknown audio
frequency.
BEL—The unit that expresses the logarithmic ratio between the input and output of any given
component, circuit, or system.
BOLOMETER—A loading device that undergoes changes in resistance as changes in dissipated power
occur.
CAVITY WAVEMETER—An instrument used to measure microwave frequencies.
CONTINUITY—An uninterrupted, complete path for current flow.
CORRECTIVE MAINTENANCE—Used to isolate equipment failures. Includes replacement of
defective parts to return equipment to proper performance.
DAMPING—The process of smoothing oscillations of the meter pointer.
D’ARSONVAL METER MOVEMENT—The permanent-magnet moving coil movement used in most
meters.
dBm—An abbreviation used to represent power levels above or below a 1-milliwatt reference.
DUMMY ANTENNA—See DUMMY LOAD.
DUMMY LOAD—A resistor used to replace the normal load, which is specifically designed to have low
reactance and possess the ability to dissipate required amounts of power.
ELECTRODYNOMETER METER MOVEMENT—A meter movement using fixed field coils and a
moving coil; usually used in wattmeters.
EXTERNALLY EXCITED METER—A term used to describe meters that get their power from the
circuit to which they are connected.

===== PDF-side 226 =====

AI-2
FORWARD RESISTANCE—The smaller resistance value observed when you are checking the forward
resistance of a semiconductor.
FREQUENCY METER—An instrument used to measure the rate at which ac voltages are generated.
GALVANOMETER—A meter used to measure small values of current by electromagnetic or
electrodynamic means.
GENERAL PURPOSE ELECTRONIC TEST EQUIPMENT (GPETE)—Test equipment that has the
capability, without modification, to generate, modify, or measure a range of electronic functions
required to test two or more equipments or systems of basically different designs.
INDUCTANCE BRIDGE—An ac bridge circuit used to measure an unknown value of inductance.
MAINTENANCE—Work done to correct, reduce, or counteract wear, failure, and damage to equipment.
MEASURE (Metrology Automated System for Uniform Recall and Reporting)—A Navy
standardized system designed to provide the recall, scheduling, and documenting of test equipment
into calibration facilities.
MECHANICAL-ROTATION FREQUENCY—The speed in revolutions per minute of armatures in
electric motors and engine-driven generators; blade speed in turbines.
MEGGER—A meter used to measure insulation resistance.
METER MOVEMENT—The part of the meter that moves to indicate some electrical value.
METER SHUNT—A resistor placed in parallel with the meter terminals; used to provide increased
range capability.
OHMMETER—A meter used to measure resistance.
POWER FACTOR—An indication of the various losses of a capacitor, such as current leakage and
dielectric absorption.
PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE—Consists of mechanical, electrical, and electronic checks; used to
determine whether or not equipment is operating properly.
SCAT CODES—A four-digit subcategory code used to identify the functional measurement parameters
that can be satisfied by any one of many pieces of test equipment.
SELF-EXCITED METER—A term used to describe meters that operate from their own power sources.
SENSITIVITY—(1) For an ammeter, the amount of current that will cause full-scale deflection of the
meter. (2) For a voltmeter, the ratio of the voltmeter resistance divided by the full-scale reading of
the meter; expressed in ohms per volt.
SCLSIS (Ship Configuration and Logistics Support Information System)—This encompasses the
automated data processing system and all practices and procedures used for identification and status
accounting of ship's configuration, logistics, technical data reviews, and equipment configuration
audits.
SHORT CIRCUIT—An unintentional current path between two components in a circuit or between a
component and ground; usually caused by a circuit malfunction.

===== PDF-side 227 =====

AI-3
SPECIAL PURPOSE ELECTRONIC TEST EQUIPMENT (SPETE)—Test equipment that is
specifically designed to generate, modify, or measure a range of electronic functions of a specific or
peculiar nature on a single system or equipment.
STROBOSCOPE—An instrument that allows viewing of rotating or reciprocating objects by producing
the optical effect of a slowing down or stopping motion.
SYMPTOM ELABORATION—Using built-in indicating instruments or other aids to define an
equipment malfunction.
SYMPTOM RECOGNITION—Recognition of a situation in equipment operation that is not normal.
TACHOMETER—An instrument that measures the rate at which a shaft is turning.
TEST EQUIPMENT INDEX—The Navy guide used to assist in identifying portable
electrical/electronic test equipment required for support of prime electrical/electronic, IC, weapons,
and reactor instrumentation systems.
TEST POINTS—Locations in equipment that are accessible to the technician's probes where operating
voltages or signals can be monitored.
THERMISTOR—A type of bolometer characterized by a decrease in resistance as the dissipated power
increases.
TROUBLESHOOTING—A procedure used to evaluate equipment performance and repair equipment
when it fails to operate properly.
TUNED CIRCUIT—A circuit that is used as a filter which passes or rejects specific frequencies.
VOLTMETER—A meter that is used to measure voltage.
WATT—The unit of electrical power that is the product of voltage and current.
WATTMETER—An electrodynamometer type meter used to measure electrical power.
WAVEFORM ANALYSIS—Observation of displays of voltage and current variations with respect to
time or by harmonic analysis of complex signals.
WAVEMETER—Calibrated resonant circuits that are used to measure frequency.
WHEATSTONE BRIDGE—An ac bridge circuit used to measure unknown values of resistance,
inductance, or capacitance.

===== PDF-side 228 =====



===== PDF-side 229 =====

AII-1
APPENDIX II
 REFERENCES USED TO DEVELOP THIS
TRAMAN
NOTE: Although the following references were current when this TRAMAN was published,
their continued currency cannot be assured. Therefore, you need to ensure that you are studying
the latest revision.
CHAPTER 1
EIMB, Test Equipment, NAVSEA 0967-LP-000-0040, Naval Sea Systems Command,
Washington, DC, 1981.
EIMB, Test Methods and Practices, NAVSEA 0967-LP-000-0130, Naval Sea Systems
Command, Washington, DC, 1980.
Electronic Test Equipment Calibration Program Indoctrination Handbook, NAVMAT P-9491,
Naval Material Command, Washington, DC, 1979.
Metrology Automated System for Uniform Recall and Reporting (MEASURE) Users Manual, OP
43P6A, Chief of Naval Operations, Washington, DC, 1984.
Navy Electricity and Electronics Training Series, Module 3, Introduction to Circuit Protection,
Control, and Measurement, NAVEDTRA B72-03-00-93, Naval Education and Training
Professional Development and Technology Center, Pensacola, FL, 1993.
Portable Electrical/Electronic Test Equipment (PEETE) Index NAVSEA ST-AA-IDX-010-
PEETE, Naval Sea Systems Command, Washington, DC, 1986.
Ships Configuration and Logistics Support Information System (SCLSIS), S0752-AA-SPN-
010/SCLSIS, Naval Sea Systems Command, Washington, DC, 1988.
Standard General Purpose Electronic Test Equipment, MIL-STD 1364(Series) (NAVY), Naval
Sea Systems Command, Washington, DC, 1991.
Stowage Guide for Portable Electrical/Electronic Test Equipment (PEETE) NAVSEA ST000-
AB-GYD-010/PEETE, Naval Sea Systems Command, Washington, DC, 1987.
CHAPTER 2
Electronics Technician 3 and 2, NAVEDTRA 80197-1, Naval Education and Training
Professional Development and Technology Center, Pensacola, FL, 1987.
Fire Controlman Third Class, NAVEDTRA 10276-1, Naval Education and Training Professional
Development and Technology Center, Pensacola, FL, 1988.
Navy Electricity and Electronics Training Series, Module 9, Introduction to Wave-Generation
and Wave-Shaping Circuits, NAVEDTRA 172-09-00-83, Naval Education and Training
Professional Development and Technology Center, Pensacola, FL, 1983.*

===== PDF-side 230 =====

AII-2
Navy Electricity and Electronics Training Series, Module 7, Introduction to Solid-State Devices
and Power Supplies, NAVEDTRA B72-07-00-92, Naval Education and Training
Professional Development and Technology Center, Pensacola, FL, 1992.
Navy Electricity and Electronics Training Series, Module 21, Test Methods and Practices,
NAVEDTRA B72-21-00-87, Naval Education and Training Professional Development and
Technology Center, Pensacola, FL, 1987.
Navy Electricity and Electronics Training Series, Module 2, Introduction to Alternating Current
and Transformers, NAVEDTRA 172-02-00-91, Naval Education and Training Professional
Development and Technology Center, Pensacola, FL, 1991.
Radioman 3 & 2, NAVEDTRA 10228-H1, Naval Education and Training Professional
Development and Technology Center, Pensacola, FL, 1991.
CHAPTER 3
Navy Electricity and Electronics Training Series, Module 5, Introduction to Generators and
Motors, NAVEDTRA B72-05-00-94, Naval Education and Training Professional
Development and Technology Center, Pensacola, FL, 1994.
Navy Electricity and Electronics Training Series, Module 1, Introduction to Matter, Energy, and
Direct Current, NAVEDTRA B72-01-00-92, Naval Education and Training Professional
Development and Technology Center, Pensacola, FL, 1992.
Navy Electricity and Electronics Training Series, Module 3, Introduction to Circuit Protection,
Control, and Measurement, NAVEDTRA B72-03-00-93, Naval Education and Training
Professional Development and Technology Center, Pensacola, FL, 1993.
CHAPTER 4
8000A Digital Multimeter, NAVSEA 0969-LP-279-9010, Naval Sea Systems Command,
Washington, DC.
Navy Electricity and Electronics Training Series, Module 7, Introduction to Solid-State Devices
and Power Supplies, NAVEDTRA B72-07-00-92, Naval Education and Training
Professional Development and Technology Center, Pensacola, FL, 1992.
Navy Electricity and Electronics Training Series, Module 13, Introduction to Number Systems
and Logic Circuits, NAVEDTRA B72-13-00-86, Naval Education and Training Professional
Development and Technology Center, Pensacola, FL, 1986.*
Operation and Maintenance Instructions, Volt-Ohm-Milliammeter 260 Series, NAVSEA 0969-
LP-286-1010, Naval Sea Systems Command, Washington, DC, 1977.
CHAPTER 5
EIMB, Test Methods and Practices, NAVSEA 0967-LP-000-0130, Naval Sea Systems
Command, Washington, DC, 1980.
Huntron Tracker 2000 Operation and Maintenance Manual, Mill Creek, WA, 1985.

===== PDF-side 231 =====

AII-3
Navy Electricity and Electronics Training Series, Module 10, Introduction to Wave Propagation,
Transmission Lines, and Antennas, NAVEDTRA 172-10-00-83, Naval Education and
Training Professional Development and Technology Center, Pensacola, FL, 1983.*
Navy Electricity and Electronics Training Series, Module 12, Modulation Principles,
NAVEDTRA 172-12-00-83, Naval Education and Training Professional Development and
Technology Center, Pensacola, FL, 1983.*
CHAPTER 6
EIMB, Test Methods and Practices, NAVSEA 0967-LP-000-0130, Naval Sea Systems
Command, Washington, DC, 1980.
EW Technician AN/SLQ-32A(V)3 ECM Maintenance Trainee Guide, A-102-0216 (Vol 1), Chief
of Naval Technical Training, Pensacola, FL, 1992.
Navy Electricity and Electronics Training Series, Module 9, Introduction to Wave-Generation
and Wave-Shaping Circuits, NAVEDTRA 172-09-00-83, Naval Education and Training
Professional Development and Technology Center, Pensacola, FL, 1983.*
Navy Electricity and Electronics Training Series, Module 6, Introduction to Electronic Emission,
Tubes, and Power Supplies, NAVEDTRA B72-06-00-92, Naval Education and Training
Professional Development and Technology Center, Pensacola, FL, 1992.
Tektronix 492/492P Spectrum Analyzer Instruction Manual, Beaverton, OR, 1981.
*Effective 1 September 1986, the Naval Education and Training Program Development Center
became the Naval Education and Training Program Management Support Activity. Effective
1 October 1996, the name was changed to Naval Education and Training Professional
Development and Technology Center.

===== PDF-side 232 =====



===== PDF-side 233 =====

INDEX-1 
MODULE 16  INDEX 
 
A 
 
Absorption wavemeter, 2-15 
Ac bridges, use of, 1-23 
Ac/dc differential voltmeter, 4-16 
Ammeter connections, 3-10 
Ammeter sensitivity, 3-11 
Amplitude of a signal, components used to 
determine, 6-16 
Astigmatism control and focus control, 6-14 
Attenuator control, 6-18 
Audio and video signal generators, 5-8 
Audio frequencies, 2-14 
Audio range, frequencies above, 2-15 
 
B 
 
Basic meters, 3-1 
Beam-deflection plate action, 6-7 
ammeter connections, 3-10 
ammeter sensitivity, 3-11 
basic meter movement, 3-2 
continuity tests, 3-27 
D’Arsonval meter movement, 3-3 
dc ammeter, 3-6 
dc voltmeter, 3-12 
electrodynamometer-type meters, 3-22 
extending voltmeter ranges, 3-14 
galvanometer, 3-2 
influence of a voltmeter in a circuit, 3-16 
megohmmeter, 3-21 
meters, 3-1 
meters used for measuring resistance, 3-17 
ohmmeter, 3-17 
resistance test, 3-29 
shunts, 3-6 
techniques for meter use, 3-27 
test for grounds, 3-28 
test for shorts, 3-28 
voltage tests, 3-29 
voltmeter circuit connections, 3-15 
voltmeter sensitivity, 3-16 
wattmeter, 3-25 
Beam finder, 6-15 
Beta measurements, 4-21 
Bolometer, 2-5 
Bridges, capacitance, inductance, and 
resistance, 1-21, 4-22 
 
C 
 
Calibrated label, 1-3 
Calibrated—refer to report label, 1-4 
Calibration and repair procedures, 1-7 
Calibration not required label, 1-6 
Calibration status, 1-3 
Calibration void if seal broken label, 1-6 
Capacitance measurements, 1-21 
Cathode-ray tubes (CRT) 6-1 
Cavity wavemeter, 2-16 
Common test equipment, 4-1 
ac/dc differential voltmeter, 4-16 
ac voltage measurements, 4-8 
accessories, 4-14 
basic digital multimeter measurements,    
4-12 
beta measurements, 4-21 
block diagram analysis, 4-13 
capacitance measurements, 4-24 
conventional transistorized voltmeter 
(TVM) mode, 4-18 
current measurements, 4-10 
dc voltage measurements, 4-6 
differential null mode, 4-19 
diode measurements, 4-21 
electrode resistance measurements, 4-21 
electronic digital multimeters, 4-11 
front panel controls, 4-17 
functional block diagram, 4-19 
ICO measurements, 4-21 
inductance measurements, 4-24 
internal battery models, 4-12 
measuring resistance, voltage, and current 
with a nonelectronic VOM, 4-1 
meter design characteristics, 4-15 
modes of operation, 4-16 
multimeters, 4-1 
operating features, 4-12

===== PDF-side 234 =====

INDEX-2 
Common test equipment—Continued 
output voltage measurements, 4-9 
overload protection, 4-12 
resistance-capacitance-inductance (RCL) 
bridges, 4-22 
resistance measurements, 4-2, 4-23 
transistor tester, 4-19 
Continuity tests, 3-27 
Conventional transistorized voltmeter (TVM) 
mode, 4-18 
Coupling, 6-24 
CRT designations, 6-10 
CRT display quality, components used to 
adjust, 6-13 
CRT graticule, 6-10 
Current measurement, 1-19, 4-10 
 
D 
 
D’Arsonval meter movement, 3-3 
Dc ammeter, 3-6 
Dc voltage measurement, 4-6 
Dc voltmeter, 3-12 
De-energized circuits, working on, 1-16 
Decibel system, 2-2 
Deflection, factors influencing, 6-4 
Differential null mode, 4-19 
Diode measurements, 4-21 
Diodes, testing, 2-20 
testing diodes with an ohmmeter, 2-20 
testing with oscilloscope, 2-20 
Direct-measuring power meter, 5-2 
Dual-trace capability, 6-30 
 
E 
 
Electrodynamometer-type meters, 3-22 
Electron-beam deflection system, 6-3 
Electron gun, 6-2 
Electronic digital multimeter, 4-11 
Electronic frequency counter, 5-11 
Electronic test equipment classification, 1-2 
Electrostatic lenses and focusing, 6-2 
Energized circuits, working on, 1-14 
 
F 
 
Focus control and astigmatism control, 6-14 
Frequency counters, 5-11 
 
G 
 
Galvanometer, 3-2 
Grounding of power tools and equipment, 1-17 
Grounds, test for, 3-28 
 
H 
 
Heterodyne frequency meters, 2-13 
Horizontal and vertical plates, 6-5 
Horizontal and vertical position controls, 6-15 
Horizontal deflection mode, components used, 
6-25 
 
I 
 
ICO measurements, 4-21 
Inactive—calibrate before use label, 1-6 
Indirect—measuring power meters, 5-4 
Inductance measurements, 1-21, 4-24 
Integrated circuit (IC) testing device, 5-20 
Intensity control, 6-14 
Internal battery models, 4-12 
 
J 
 
Joint Electronics Type Designation System 
(JETDS), 1-2 
 
M 
 
Mechanical-rotation frequency measurement, 
2-8 
Megohmmeter, 3-21 
Meter movement, basic, 3-2 
Meter use, techniques for, 3-27 
Meters, 3-1 
Metrology Automated System for Uniform 
Recall and Reporting (MEASURE), 1-8 
Miscellaneous measurements, 2-1 
absorption wavemeter, 2-15 
audio frequencies, 2-13 
bolometer, 2-5

===== PDF-side 235 =====

INDEX-3 
Miscellaneous measurements—Continued 
cavity wavemeter, 2-16 
decibel system, 2-2 
electrical output frequency, 2-12 
electronic frequency counters, 2-16 
frequencies above the audio range, 2-15 
frequency measurements, 2-7 
heterodyne frequency meters, 2-13 
measurement methods, 2-4 
mechanical-rotation frequency 
measurement, 2-8 
power measurements, 2-1 
power supply checks, 2-22 
resistance checks, 2-23 
stroboscope, 2-10 
tachometer, 2-8 
testing diodes, 2-20 
testing diodes with an ohmmeter, 2-20 
testing semiconductor devices, 2-19 
testing transistors, 2-22 
testing with oscilloscopes, 2-20 
thermistor bridge, 2-6 
transistor checks, 2-23 
tuned circuits, 2-13 
use of the oscilloscope, 2-17, 6-27 
use of the spectrum analyzer, 2-18 
visual inspection, 2-23 
voltage checks, 2-23 
waveform analysis, 2-17 
Multimeters, 4-1 
 
O 
 
Ohmmeter, 3-17 
Oscilloscope control components, 6-10 
Oscilloscope, the, 6-1 
accessories, 6-35 
attenuator control, 6-18 
beam deflection plate action, 6-7 
beam finder, 6-15 
cathode and control grid, 6-2 
cathode-ray tubes, 6-1 
components used to adjust CRT display 
quality, 6-13 
components used to calibrate the probe of 
the scope, 6-26 
Oscilloscope—Continued 
components used to determine amplitude 
of a signal, 6-16 
components used to determine period time 
of the display, 6-20 
components used to display the waveform, 
6-12 
components used to provide a stable 
display, 6-22 
components used to select horizontal 
deflection mode, 6-25 
components used to select scope 
triggering, 6-25 
components used to select vertical 
deflection operating mode, 6-30 
components used to select vertical 
operating mode, 6-19 
coupling, 6-24 
CRT designations, 6-10 
CRT graticule, 6-10 
dual-trace capability, 6-30 
electron beam deflection system, 6-3 
electron gun, 6-2 
electrostatic lenses and focusing, 6-2 
factors influencing deflection, 6-4 
focus control and astigmatism control,     
6-14 
horizontal and vertical position controls,   
6-15 
input connector, 6-17 
intensity control, 6-14 
number of cycles on the screen, 6-28 
obtaining a pattern on the screen, 6-28 
oscilloscope control components, 6-10 
other dual-trace oscilloscope controls, 6-34 
similarities among oscilloscopes, 6-27 
source, 6-23 
trace rotation control, 6-15 
trigger level/slope, 6-23 
turning on the scope, 6-28 
using the oscilloscope, 6-27 
vertical and horizontal plates, 6-6 
vertical position control, 6-17 
Output voltage measurement, 4-9

===== PDF-side 236 =====

INDEX-4 
P 
 
Period time of the display, components used to 
determine, 6-20 
Power measurements, 2-1 
Power meters, 5-1 
Probe of the scope, components used to 
calibrate the, 6-26 
 
R 
 
Radio-frequency (rf) signal generators, 5-10 
Rejected—refer to attached tag label, 1-6 
Repair procedures, 1-7 
Resistance-capacitance-inductance (RCL) 
bridges, 1-21, 4-20 
Resistance measurements, 1-20, 4-21 
Resistance, meters used for measuring, 3-17 
Resistance test, 3-29 
 
S 
 
Safety shorting probe, 1-16 
Scope triggering, components used to select,   
6-25 
Ship Configuration and Logistic Information 
System (SCLSIS), 1-3 
Shorts, test for, 3-28 
Shunts, 3-6 
Signal Generators, 5-8 
Special-application test equipment, 5-1 
audio and video signal generators, 5-8 
direct-measuring power meter, 5-2 
frequency counters, 5-11 
general description of the frequency 
counters, 5-12 
indirect-measuring power meters, 5-4 
integrated circuit (IC) testing device, 5-20 
interpreting power measurements made by 
a wattmeter, 5-3 
operation of the wattmeter, 5-3 
power meters, 5-1 
radio-frequency (rf) signal generators, 5-10 
signal generators, 5-8 
tracker 2000, 5-22 
Special calibration label, 1-5 
Spectrum analyzer, 6-37 
Spectrum analyzer—Continued 
basic functional description, 6-38 
converter section, 6-38 
digital control section, 6-40 
display section, 6-39 
frequency control section, 6-39 
front panel controls, indicators, and 
connectors, 6-40 
IF section, 6-39 
normal  indications upon power on, 6-44 
power and cooling section, 6-40 
use of the, 2-18 
Stable display, components used to provide a, 
6-22 
Stroboscope, 2-10 
 
T 
 
Tachometer, 2-8 
Test equipment administration, 1-1 
“no reject” policy, 1-7 
calibrated—refer to report label, 1-4 
calibration and repair, 1-3 
calibration label, 1-3 
calibration not required label, 1-6 
calibration status, 1-3 
calibration void if seal broken label, 1-6 
electronic test equipment classification,   
1-2 
inactive—calibrate before use label, 1-6 
Joint Electronics Type Designation System 
(JETDS), 1-2 
Metrology Automated System for Uniform 
Recall and Reporting (MEASURE), 1-8 
rejected—refer to attached tag label, 1-6 
repair procedures, 1-7 
responsibility for repair and maintenance 
of test equipment, 1-7 
special calibration label, 1-5 
stowage and handling of test equipment,  
1-7 
test equipment identification, 1-2 
user calibration label, 1-5 
Test equipment, using, 1-12 
basic measurements, 1-18 
capacitance, inductance, and resistance 
bridges, 1-21

===== PDF-side 237 =====

INDEX-5 
Test equipment, using—Continued 
capacitance measurements, 1-21 
general test equipment information, 1-12 
grounding of power tools and equipment, 
1-17 
inductance measurements, 1-21, 4-24 
instrument precautions, 1-12 
other instrument precautions, 1-13 
resistance measurements, 1-20, 4-23 
safety precautions, 1-12 
safety shorting probe, 1-16 
use of ac bridges, 1-23 
voltage and current, 1-19 
Wheatstone bridge, 1-21 
working on de-energized circuits, 1-16 
working on energized circuits, 1-14 
Thermistor bridge, 2-6 
Trace rotation control, 6-15 
Transistor tester, 4-19 
Transistors, testing, 2-22 
power supply checks, 2-22 
resistance checks, 2-23 
transistor checks, 2-23, 4-20 
visual inspection, 2-23 
voltage checks, 2-23 
Trigger level/slope, 6-23 
 
U 
 
User calibration label, 1-5 
 
V 
 
Vertical and horizontal plates, 6-6 
Vertical operating mode, components used to 
select, 6-19 
Voltage tests, 3-29 
Voltmeter circuit connections, 3-15 
Voltmeter ranges, extending, 3-14 
Voltmeter sensitivity, 3-16 
 
W 
 
Wattmeter, 3-25 
Wattmeter, operation of the, 5-3 
Waveform analysis, 2-17 
Waveform, components used to display the,    
6-12 
Wheatstone bridge, 1-21

===== PDF-side 238 =====



===== PDF-side 239 =====

Assignment Questions
Information:  The text pages that you are to study are
provided at the beginning of the assignment questions.

===== PDF-side 240 =====



===== PDF-side 241 =====

1 
 
ASSIGNMENT 1 
 
Textbook assignment: Chapter 1, “Test Equipment Administration and USE,” pages 1-1 through 
1-33. Chapter 2, “Miscellaneous Measurements,” pages 2-1 through 2-27. 
___________________________________________________________________________________ 
 
1-1. What system is currently used by U.S. 
military services to identify electronic 
equipment with standardized 
nomenclature? 
 
1. Joint Electronic Type Designation 
System (JETDS) 
2. Joint Electronics Type Category 
System (JETCS) 
3. Army-Navy (AN) System 
4. Navy Tactical Data Systems (NTDS) 
 
1-2. Which of the following categories of test 
equipment is/are designed to test, without 
modification, a range of electronic 
parameters needed for two or more 
systems that are different in design? 
 
1. GPETE 
2. SPETE 
3. Both 1 and 2 above 
4. Installed 
 
1-3. For what purpose was the ETE 
classification board established? 
 
1. To control inventory limits 
2. To control the increase of 
nonstandard GPETE 
3. To control the increase of 
nonstandard SPETE 
4. To become final approval authority 
for SPETE 
 
1-4. Which of the following systems provides 
an inventory of test equipment actually 
located in the fleet? 
 
1. 3M 
2. SCLSIS 
3. STEED 
4. SPETREL 
1-5. You can determine if a piece of test 
equipment has been calibrated by 
checking which of the following 
documents? 
 
1. The test equipment logbook 
2. A directive from the EMO 
3. The completed maintenance action 
form for the instrument 
4. A tag or label attached to the 
instrument 
 
1-6. What label is used to identify a test 
instrument that is within tolerance on all 
parameters? 
 
1. INACTIVE 
2. CALIBRATED 
3. CALIBRATED—Refer to report 
4. ORGANIZATION LEVEL 
CALIBRATED 
 
1-7. Which of the following conditions 
warrants the use of one of the SPECIAL 
CALIBRATION labels and/or tags? 
 
1. Calibration deviates from the usual 
tolerances 
2. The instrument has more than one 
calibration interval 
3. The instrument is too large to move 
and requires in-place calibration 
4. Each of the above

===== PDF-side 242 =====

2 
1-8. Under what circumstances should the 
USER CALIBRATION label be affixed 
to a piece of test equipment? 
 
1. When a certain calibration schedule is 
assigned 
2. When user calibration is required 
before, during, or after use 
3. When the equipment is out for 
calibration 
4. Each of the above 
 
1-9. Which of the following statements must 
appear on the CALIBRATION NOT 
REQUIRED label affixed to an 
instrument? 
 
1. By what authority the label was 
affixed 
2. The reason no calibration is required 
3. The date the label was affixed 
4. The METRL page number 
 
1-10. Which of the following labels is attached 
to an unusable instrument, and may have 
an additional tag attached? 
 
1. INACTIVE 
2. REJECTED 
3. CALIBRATED 
4. SPECIAL CALIBRATION 
 
1-11. A test instrument that has plug-in 
modules and/or easily accessible 
potentiometer or controls which affect 
the calibration of the instrument should 
have which of the following labels 
attached? 
 
1. CALIBRATED 
2. CALIBRATION NOT REQUIRED 
3. CALIBRATED—REFER TO 
REPORT 
4. CALIBRATION VOID IF SEAL 
BROKEN 
 
1-12. A replacement part needed by an IMA to 
repair a piece of test equipment should be 
ordered by the activity sending the 
inoperative equipment for repair and 
calibration. For which of the following 
reasons is this a good practice? 
 
1. IMAs are not allowed to order repair 
parts 
2. The ship has more repair funds than 
the IMA 
3. The ship is usually able to obtain the 
parts more quickly 
4. It is more likely the technician on the 
ship will obtain the correct part 
 
1-13. When maintenance personnel are not 
authorized to make repairs to a piece of 
test equipment, what items, if any, must 
be sent to the calibration repair facility 
with the equipment? 
 
1. The unit and its power cord 
2. All the accessories 
3. Standards used to calibrate 
4. None 
 
1-14. In what type of environment should test 
equipment be stowed? 
 
1. Dry 
2. Dark and damp 
3. High humidity and low temperature 
4. High temperature and high humidity 
 
1-15. In a stowage space aboard ship, what 
device(s) should be used to hold the test 
equipment in place? 
 
1. Set clasp springs 
2. Tie down cord 
3. Steel straps 
4. Stretch seat-belt-type straps

===== PDF-side 243 =====

3 
1-16. What system is used to provide for a 
standardized recall and scheduling of test 
equipment into calibration facilities? 
 
1. MDCC 
2. SCLSIS 
3. METER 
4. MEASURE 
 
1-17. The meter card is used to provide what 
information concerning test equipment? 
 
1. Changes 
2. Additions 
3. Deletions 
4. All of the above 
 
1-18. Which of the following actions would be 
classified as preventive maintenance? 
 
1. Purchasing a new piece of test 
equipment 
2. Isolating an equipment failure to the 
component level 
3. Aligning a servo assembly after a 
repair 
4. Replacing a defective transistor 
 
1-19. Which of the following actions would be 
regarded as part of corrective 
maintenance? 
 
1. Routine lubrication of a radar pedestal 
2. Mechanical inspection of a bearing 
assembly in a motor housing 
3. Alignment of a servo assembly after a 
repair 
4. Cleaning a filter in accordance with a 
maintenance requirement card 
 
1-20. Troubleshooting electrical and electronic 
equipment includes which of the 
following actions? 
 
1. Fault isolation 
2. Equipment repair 
3. Equipment performance evaluation 
4. Each of the above 
 
1-21. The initial operating conditions of newly 
installed equipment are referred to as 
 
1. alignment data 
2. manufacturer's specifications 
3. baseline operating characteristics 
4. expected operation characteristics 
 
1-22. When working on energized equipment, 
you should follow which of the following 
practices? 
 
1. Work alone 
2. Work with both hands 
3. Insulate yourself from ground 
4. Wear rubber gloves at all times 
 
1-23. When measuring 300 volts or more, you 
should first take what step? 
 
1. Turn off equipment power 
2. Ground all components capable of 
retaining an electrical charge 
3. Short-circuit all components capable 
of retaining an electrical charge 
4. Connect the meter leads to the points 
to be measured 
 
1-24. Which of the following insulating 
materials is suitable for covering a 
grounded metal work bench? 
 
1. Dry insulating material that contains 
no holes or conductors 
2. Dry canvas that has holes in it 
3. Dry phenolic material that has 
conductors embedded in it 
4. Damp plywood 
 
1-25. Prior to working on a circuit, you use a 
shorting probe discharge which of the 
following types of components? 
 
1. Capacitors only 
2. Cathode-ray tubes only 
3. Capacitors and cathode-ray tubes 
4. Inductors

===== PDF-side 244 =====

4 
1-26. If a 28 volt 6 ampere fuse blows, the 
proper procedure is to replace it with 
which of the following devices? 
 
1. A larger fuse until the cause of the 
overload has been determined 
2. A fuse of the same voltage and 
current rating 
3. A fuse rated 20 percent lower than the 
blown fuse 
4. A copper strap until the cause of the 
overload is determined 
 
1-27. Before electrical equipment is 
overhauled or repaired, what general 
safety precaution, if any, should be 
followed? 
 
1. The fuse for the associated circuits 
should be replaced with circuit 
breakers 
2. The main supply switches should 
temporarily be shorted out 
3. The power switches should be 
secured open and tagged out of 
service 
4. None 
 
1-28. After work on equipment is complete, 
who should remove any attached tags? 
 
1. The job inspector 
2. The repair crew leader 
3. Any member of the repair crew 
4. The person who signed and attached 
the tag 
 
1-29. What is the purpose of the grounding 
cable attached to the frame of a generator 
aboard ship? 
 
1. Create a potential difference between 
the frame and the ship 
2. Conduct power to the generator under 
emergency conditions 
3. Ensure equipment is at same ground 
potential as the ship 
4. Break the circuit between the frame 
and the power supply under 
emergency conditions 
 
1-30. Which of the following steps should you 
take to help ensure that metal-case test 
equipments are safe to use? 
 
1. Energize the instrument to test the 
ground 
2. Ensure the equipment is grounded 
3. Insulate the metal case from ground 
4. Connect all metal cases to a common 
ungrounded lead 
 
1-31. Which of the following precautions 
should you observe when using 
measuring instruments? 
 
1. Avoid strong magnetic fields 
2. Avoid excessive current 
3. Avoid mechanical shock 
4. Each of the above 
 
1-32. The meter movement in a voltmeter can 
be easily damaged by excessive current if 
you do not follow certain procedures. 
When setting up the meter to read 
voltage, the RANGE SWITCH should 
first be set to (a) what relative range and 
then changed to (b) what relative range? 
 
1. (a) Highest 
(b) Closest to the voltage to be read 
2. (a) Highest 
(b) Lower than the voltage to be read 
3. (a) Lowest 
(b) Lower than the voltage to be read 
4. (a) Lowest 
(b) Closest to the voltage to be read

===== PDF-side 245 =====

5 
A. Place one hand in your pocket or 
behind your back. 
B. Turn on the power. 
C. Connect the meter ground to the 
equipment ground. 
D. Place the positive meter lead on the 
test point; select for positive or 
negative polarity. 
Figure 1A.—Procedures 
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTION 1-33, REFER 
TO THE PROCEDURES IN FIGURE 1A. 
 
1-33. When you measure voltages less than 
300 volts, in what order should you 
complete the task? 
 
1. A B C D 
2. B C D A 
3. C A D B 
4. D C B A 
_________________________________ 
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTIONS 1-34 
THROUGH 1-37, SELECT FROM THE 
MEASUREMENT COLUMN BELOW THE 
ANSWER THAT MATCHES THE 
SITUATION BEING DESCRIBED. 
 
 MEASUREMENT
 
  
1. Current 
2. Inductance 
3. Resistance 
4. Capacitance 
_________________________________ 
 
1-34. This measurement is rarely taken in 
preventive or corrective maintenance or 
testing because unsoldering is usually 
required. Ohm's law is normally applied 
to determine this value. 
 
1-35. This is a valuable aid in locating faults 
during corrective maintenance, but 
cannot be made with power applied. 
Many technical manuals contain charts 
that indicate the test points for this 
measurement. 
 
1-36. This measurement provides an indication 
of dielectric strength and is used to 
determine the power factor. 
 
1-37. This measurement is seldom taken during 
troubleshooting. It can be taken using a 
bridge or another instrument that is 
primarily designed to measure another 
quantity; however, a conversion chart is 
required. 
 
1-38. The power factor is an indication of the 
losses caused by which of the following 
conditions? 
 
1. Excessive voltage 
2. Dielectric absorption 
3. Current leakage 
4. Both 2 and 3 above 
 
1-39. The Wheatstone bridge can be used for 
precision measurements of which of the 
following quantities? 
 
1. Voltage 
2. Current 
3. Impedance 
4. Resistance

===== PDF-side 246 =====

6 
 
Figure 1B.—Dc resistance bridge. 
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTION 1-40, REFER 
TO FIGURE 1B. 
 
1-40. In the dc resistance bridge, what is the 
value of Rx? 
 
1.      42 ohms 
2.    400 ohms 
3.    420 ohms 
4. 4,200 ohms 
 
 
 
Figure 1C.—Ac resistance bridge. 
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTION 1-41, REFER 
TO FIGURE 1C. 
 
1-41. In the ac resistance bridge, what is the 
value of Rx? 
 
1.       25 ohms 
2.     250 ohms 
3.   2,500 ohms 
4. 25,000 ohms 
 
 
Figure 1D.—Capacitance bridge. 
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTION 1-42, REFER 
TO FIGURE 1D. 
 
1-42. In the capacitance bridge, what is the 
value of Cx? 
 
1.      25 microfarads 
2.    117 microfarads 
3.    256 microfarads 
4. 1,178 microfarads 
 
1-43. Dc power is stated in which of the 
following units? 
 
1. Watts 
2. Farads 
3. Amperes 
4. Henries

===== PDF-side 247 =====

7 
1-44. Power in an audio-frequency circuit is 
stated in which of the following units? 
 
1. Decibels (dB) only 
2. Decibels referenced to 1 milliwatt 
(dBm) only 
3. Both dB and dBm 
4. Volt units (Vu) 
 
1-45. The bel is a unit of measurement used 
with voltage, current, or power that 
compares which of the following circuit 
values? 
 
1. The input to the output 
2. The output to a reference 
3. The voltage to power 
4. The current to power 
 
1-46. What is the relationship between the 
values of the bel and the decibel? 
 
1. The bel is twice the decibel 
2. The decibel is twice the bel 
3. The bel is 1/10 the decibel 
4. The decibel is 1/10 the bel 
 
1-47. What is the corresponding increase in 
dBm each time power is doubled? 
 
1.   +1 dB 
2.   +2 dB 
3.   +3 dB 
4. +10 dB 
 
1-48. A thermocouple ammeter is used to 
measure which of the following 
quantities? 
 
1. Rf current 
2. Af current 
3. Motor current 
4. Generator current 
 
1-49. A bolometer is a power meter that 
measures power in certain frequency 
ranges. Which of the following methods 
is/are used by the bolometer to measure 
power values? 
 
1. A barretter detects increases in power 
when its resistance increases 
2. A thermistor detects increases in 
power when its resistance decreases 
3. Both 1 and 2 above 
4. Power is measured directly 
 
 
THIS SPACE LEFT BLANK 
INTENTIONALLY.

===== PDF-side 248 =====

8 
 
Figure 1E.—Thermistor bridge. 
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTION 1-50, REFER 
TO FIGURE 1E. 
 
1-50. In the thermistor bridge, what is the 
purpose of RT-1 and RT-3? 
 
1. To compensate for power used by 
RT-2 
2. To compensate for temperature 
changes outside the waveguide 
3. To control the amount of rf energy 
applied to RT-2 
4. To control the temperature of the 
waveguide 
 
1-51. To measure shaft rotation rate on an 
engine, you should use, which, if any, of 
the following instruments? 
 
1. An ammeter 
2. A bolometer 
3. A tachometer 
4. None of the above 
 
 
1-52. In the centrifugal tachometer, what 
component restricts the action on the 
lower collar that is produced by 
centrifugal force? 
 
1. The spring 
2. The pointer 
3. The upper collar 
4. The lower collar 
 
1-53. What is the usual speed range (in feet per 
minute) of a chronometric tachometer? 
 
1. 0 to       30 
2. 0 to      300 
3. 0 to   3,000 
4. 0 to 30,000

===== PDF-side 249 =====

9 
1-54. You are measuring the speed of a fan 
blade by using a stroboscopic 
tachometer.  Setting the flash at a rate 5 
rpm SLOWER than the fan speed will 
cause the blades to appear to move (a) in 
what relative direction and (b) at what 
speed? 
 
1. (a) Forward (b)   5 rpm 
2. (a) Forward (b) 10 rpm 
3. (a) Backward (b) 10 rpm 
4. (a) Backward (b)   5 rpm 
 
1-55. The flashing rate of a strobotac is 
controlled by which of the following 
circuits? 
 
1. An electronic pulse generator 
2. A frequency divider 
3. A power supply 
4. An amplifier 
 
1-56. The flashing rate of the strobotron tube 
affects its life expectancy. What is the 
range (in hours) of life expectancy of the 
strobotron tube? 
 
1.   15 to   24 
2.   25 to   49 
3.   50 to   99 
4. 100 to 250 
 
1-57. The vibrating-reed frequency meter is a 
delicate instrument and should not be 
subjected to vibrations, such as those 
associated with motor-generators or their 
associated control panels. 
 
1. True 
2. False 
 
1-58. When using the vibrating-reed frequency 
meter, you take the reading in which of 
the following ways? 
 
1. Read the digital readout 
2. Read the dial indication 
3. Read the mechanical setting 
4. Read the reed that vibrates the most 
 
1-59. Bandpass filters and band reject filters 
are tuned circuits that either pass or reject 
specific frequencies. In these filters, (a) 
what type offers very high impedance to 
currents at its resonant frequency, and (b) 
what type offers a very low impedance to 
currents at its resonant frequency? 
 
1. (a) Parallel-tuned (b) series-tuned 
2. (a) Parallel-tuned (b) parallel-tuned 
3. (a) Series-tuned (b) parallel-tuned 
4. (a) Series-tuned (b) series-tuned 
 
1-60. When you are zero beating an unknown 
frequency with a frequency provided by 
a calibrated, high-precision oscillator 
within a heterodyne frequency meter, 
what will be the indication when the two 
frequencies are matched? 
 
1. One dot of light on the screen will be 
superimposed on the other 
2. One vertical line on the screen will be 
superimposed on the other 
3. The two tones in the headset will 
achieve the same pitch, at which time 
a series of clicks will begin 
4. The tone in the headset will decrease 
in pitch and be replaced by clicks that 
will become slow or nonexistent 
 
 
THIS SPACE LEFT BLANK 
INTENTIONALLY.

===== PDF-side 250 =====

10 
 
Figure 1F.—Absorption wavemeter circuit. 
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTION 1-61, REFER 
TO FIGURE 1F. 
 
1-61. When you are using an absorption 
wavemeter to measure frequency, the 
greatest accuracy may be obtained by 
loosely coupling the pickup coil so that 
the indicator lamp burns (a) with what 
degree of brilliance (b) under what 
resonance condition? 
 
1. (a) Maximum brilliance 
(b) when tuned to the resonant 
frequency 
2. (a) Maximum brilliance 
(b) when not tuned to the resonant 
frequency 
3. (a) Dimly 
(b) when not tuned to the resonant 
frequency 
4. (a) Dimly 
(b) when tuned to the resonant 
frequency 
 
1-62. Which of the following instruments 
should be used to accurately measure a 
frequency in the shf range? 
 
1. Absorption wavemeter 
2. Resonant, cavity-type wavemeter 
3. Resonant, coaxial-line-type 
wavemeter 
4. Both 2 and 3 above 
 
1-63. In a cavity wavemeter, moving the 
plunger farther into the cavity space 
causes which of the following changes to 
(a) the cavity size and (b) the resonant 
frequency of the cavity? 
 
1. (a) Decrease (b) increase 
2. (a) Decrease (b) decrease 
3. (a) Increase (b) decrease 
4. (a) Increase (b) increase 
 
1-64. For which of the following purposes is a 
cathode-ray oscilloscope used? 
 
1. To measure microwave energy 
2. To visually analyze waveforms 
3. To provide frequency modulation 
4. To locate stray radio interference 
 
1-65. The synchroscope contains which of the 
following circuits? 
 
1. Retrace blanking circuit 
2. A wide band amplifier 
3. A trigger sweep 
4. All of the above 
 
 
THIS SPACE LEFT BLANK 
INTENTIONALLY.

===== PDF-side 251 =====

11 
 
Figure 1G.—Waveform display. 
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTION 1-66, REFER 
TO FIGURE 1G. MEASUREMENT X 
REPRESENTS THE HORIZONTAL 
DISTANCE OF THE WAVEFORM; 
MEASUREMENT Y REPRESENTS THE 
VERTICAL DISTANCE OF THE 
WAVEFORM. 
 
1-66. In the figure, (a) time is represented by 
what measurement, and (b) amplitude is 
represented by what measurement? 
 
1. (a) X (b) X 
2. (a) X (b) Y 
3. (a) Y (b) Y 
4. (a) Y (b) X 
 
1-67. An oscilloscope measures voltage and 
displays waveforms.  It can be used to 
measure currents, temperatures, speeds, 
and accelerations if they are first 
converted to 
 
1. heat 
2. light 
3. voltages 
4. pressures 
1-68. The spectrum analyzer is used to display 
which of the following quantities? 
 
1. Amplitude within each frequency 
component in a circuit 
2. Proportions of power within each 
frequency component in the spectrum 
3. Frequencies produced in a circuit 
4. Each of the above 
 
1-69. While testing a semiconductor diode, you 
determine that the forward resistance 
value is 60 ohms.  You should consider 
the diode good if the backward resistance 
is at least which of the following values? 
 
1.        6 ohms 
2.      60 ohms 
3.    600 ohms 
4. 6,000 ohms 
 
1-70. When you are using an oscilloscope to 
test a crystal diode, what is shown by (a) 
the vertical deflection and (b) the 
horizontal deflection? 
 
1. (a) Crystal current 
(b) voltage applied to the diode 
2. (a) Crystal current 
(b) power developed in the diode 
3. (a) Crystal voltage 
(b) power developed in the diode 
4. (a) Crystal voltage 
(b) voltage applied to the diode 
 
1-71. When you are using the oscilloscope to 
test the Zener diode, what is represented 
by (a) vertical deflection and (b) 
horizontal deflection? 
 
1. (a) Zener current 
(b) Zener power 
2. (a) Zener current 
(b) applied voltage 
3. (a) Applied voltage 
(b) Zener power 
4. (a) Applied voltage 
(b) Zener current

===== PDF-side 252 =====

12 
1-72. When troubleshooting transistorized 
circuits, you should first check the 
condition of which of the following 
circuits? 
 
1. Counters 
2. Amplifiers 
3. Oscillators 
4. Power supplies 
 
1-73. Which of the following instruments is 
used to check transistors for collector 
leakage current and current gain? 
 
1. Ohmmeter 
2. Voltmeter 
3. Wheatstone bridge 
4. Semiconductor test set 
 
1-74. When making base-to-emitter bias 
voltage checks on a transistor, you 
should read which of the following 
voltage ranges? 
 
1.   5 to 20 microvolts 
2. 50 to 200 millivolts 
3.   5 to 20 volts 
4. 50 to 200 volts 
 
1-75. When making resistance measurements 
on a transistor with an ohmmeter, you 
should allow what maximum current in 
the transistor? 
 
1. milliampere 
2. milliampere 
3. microampere 
4. microampere

===== PDF-side 253 =====

13 
ASSIGNMENT 2 
 
Textbook assignment:  Chapter 3, “Basic Meters,” pages 3-1 through 3-34.  Chapter 4, “Common Test 
Equipment,” pages 4-1 through 4-10. 
___________________________________________________________________________________ 
 
 
 
2-1. What are the two basic components of a 
galvanometer? 
 
1. A movable permanent magnet and a 
movable coil 
2. A stationary permanent magnet and a 
stationary coil 
3. A stationary permanent magnet and a 
movable coil 
4. A stationary coil and a movable coil 
 
2-2. The coil in a galvanometer rotates to 
allow measurement of current.  Which of 
the following actions causes this 
reaction? 
 
1. Current flowing in opposite 
directions through two coils 
2. Tension of the hairspring and the 
magnetism produced by the 
permanent magnet 
3. Magnetism produced by current 
flowing in the movable coil and the 
tension of the hairspring 
4. Magnetism of the permanent magnet 
and magnetism produced by current 
in the movable coil 
 
2-3. In a galvanometer, the phosphor bronze 
ribbon serves which of the following 
functions? 
 
1. Provides a conduction path from the 
circuit being tested to the coil 
2. Restores the coil to its original 
position 
3. Allows the coil to twist 
4. Each of the above 
 
2-4. In galvanometers, which of the following 
components is/are used to indicate the 
value of the current being measured? 
 
1. Pointer 
2. Light and mirror 
3. Both 1 and 2 above 
4. Digital readout 
 
2-5. The phosphor bronze ribbon in the 
galvanometer serves the same purpose as 
what component in the D'Arsonval 
meter? 
 
1. Hairspring 
2. Movable coil 
3. Fixed iron core 
4. Permanent magnet 
 
2-6. The direction in which the D'Arsonval 
meter pointer deflects depends on what 
characteristic of the current applied to the 
coil? 
 
1. Phase 
2. Polarity 
3. Frequency 
4. Amplitude 
 
2-7. The D'Arsonval meter movement is 
damped to prevent which of the 
following conditions? 
 
1. Oscillating readings 
2. Inconsistent readings 
3. Consistently low readings 
4. Consistently high readings

===== PDF-side 254 =====

14 
2-8. The weight of the rotating coil assembly 
and the type of bearings used in the 
D'Arsonval meter are factors that affect 
which of the following characteristics of 
the meter? 
 
1. The accuracy and the linearity of the 
meter scales 
2. The amount of restraining force 
required of the hairspring 
3. The maximum current that can be 
measured 
4. The sensitivity 
 
2-9. For a meter to read linearly, its face is 
divided into equal segments.  What meter 
feature makes this possible? 
 
1. The curved poles of the permanent 
magnet 
2. The jeweled bearings in the meter 
movement 
3. An additional coil placed in the 
meter circuit 
4. A long, lightweight meter pointer 
 
2-10. What is the purpose of a shunt in a dc 
ammeter? 
 
1. To decrease the sensitivity of the 
meter 
2. To increase the linearity of the meter 
movement 
3. To increase the current range of the 
meter 
4. To decrease meter damping 
 
2-11. A particular D'Arsonval meter has a full-
scale current reading of 1 milliampere.  
A full-scale reading of 100 milliamperes 
may be achieved by using which of the 
following components? 
 
1. A low-value resistance placed in 
series with the meter terminals 
2. A high-value resistance placed in 
series with the meter terminals 
3. A movable coil composed of large-
diameter wire 
4. A resistance of proper value placed 
in parallel with the meter terminals 
2-12. To measure 10 milliamperes on a 1-
milliampere D'Arsonval meter 
movement, a shunt resistance is added 
that will carry 9 milliamperes.  What 
maximum value of current will pass 
through the meter movement? 
 
1. 1 milliampere 
2. 3 milliamperes 
3. 6 milliamperes 
4. 9 milliamperes 
 
2-13. In a meter movement, shunt strips with a 
zero temperature coefficient are used 
instead of regular carbon resistance for 
which of the following reasons? 
 
1. Because regular carbon resistances 
cause interfering magnetic fields 
2. Because regular carbon resistances 
are too large to be used 
3. Because regular carbon resistances 
are not able to handle the current 
changes 
4. Because regular carbon resistances 
are affected by heat due to current 
and cause readings to vary 
 
2-14. One consideration in choosing the value 
of a meter shunt resistance is that the 
meter readings should be in the midscale 
range.  Which of the following factors is 
another consideration? 
 
1. Meter switching is easier for 
midscale deflection 
2. Meter shielding against magnetic 
interference is greatest near midscale 
3. Minimum loading effect will be 
experienced near midscale 
4. The meter is protected from 
unexpected surge currents 
 
2-15. For which of the following current 
ranges would you likely use a meter that 
contains internal shunt? 
 
1.   1 to 10 amperes 
2. 11 to 30 amperes 
3. 31 to 50 amperes 
4. All of the above

===== PDF-side 255 =====

15 
 
Figure 2A.—Shunt ammeter. 
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTIONS 2-16 
THROUGH 2-19, REFER TO FIGURE 2A.  
THE METER IN THE CIRCUIT IS 
DESIGNED FOR MAXIMUM OF .001 
AMPERE AND HAS AN INTERNAL 
RESISTANCE OF 10 OHMS.  YOU ARE 
FIGURING THE SHUNT RESISTANCE 
NECESSARY TO MEASURE 5 AMPERES. 
 
2-16. What is the voltage drop across the meter 
coil? 
 
1.     .01 volt 
2.   .005 volt 
3. .0001 volt 
4. .0005 volt 
 
2-17. What is the voltage drop across the shunt 
resistance? 
   
1.   .01 volt 
2.   .005 volt 
3. .0001 volt 
4. .0005 volt 
 
2-18. When the meter is deflected full scale 
and is measuring 5 amperes, what is the 
maximum value of current flow through 
the shunt resistance? 
 
1. 0.010  ampere 
2. 0.490  ampere 
3. 4.999  ampere 
4. 5      amperes 
 
2-19. What is the approximate value of the 
shunt resistance? 
 
1. .001 ohm 
2. .002 ohm 
3. .003 ohm 
4. .004 ohm 
 
2-20. Simple range-switching arrangements for 
current meters are less satisfactory than 
other methods of range switching for 
which of the following reasons? 
 
1. Meter damage can occur when line 
current momentarily flows through 
the meter 
2. Resistance in the contacts may cause 
inaccurate readings 
3. Both 1 and 2 above 
4. Resistor damage may occur 
 
 
 
Figure 2B.—Ammeter connections. 
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTION 2-21, REFER 
TO FIGURE 2B. 
 
2-21. In the figure, five ammeters are 
connected to the circuit resistors.  Of 
those five, which one(s) is/are connected 
correctly? 
 
1. E only 
2. A and E 
3. A and C 
4. A, B, and D

===== PDF-side 256 =====

16 
2-22. What will be the probable result of 
connecting an ammeter (or 
milliammeter) in PARALLEL with a 
source of voltage or a circuit component? 
 
1. A burned-out meter that will provide 
no useful readings 
2. A higher than normal meter reading 
3. A lower than normal meter reading 
4. A normal meter reading 
 
 
Figure 2C.—Series-parallel circuit. 
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTIONS 2-23 AND     
2-24, REFER TO FIGURE 2C. 
 
2-23. To measure total circuit current, you 
should break the circuit to connect an 
ammeter at which of the following 
points? 
 
1. A only 
2. B or C 
3. C, D, or E 
4. A, B, or F 
 
2-24. To measure the current flow through 
resistor R2 only, you should break which 
of the following points to connect the 
ammeter? 
 
1. A 
2. B 
3. C 
4. F 
 
2-25. Meter sensitivity is determined by the 
amount of current required by the 
ammeter coil to provide full-scale 
deflection of the pointer.  An ammeter 
coil requiring which of the following 
current values provides the greatest 
sensitivity? 
 
1.     1 milliampere 
2.   10 milliamperes 
3. 100 microamperes 
4. 500 microamperes 
 
2-26. Circuits in which low-sensitivity 
ammeters are used are said to be 
"loaded." Which of the following 
statements describes the cause of circuit 
loading? 
 
1. The ammeter circuit draws NO 
current from the circuit being tested 
2. The ammeter circuit draws 
MINIMUM current from the circuit 
being tested 
3. The ammeter circuit draws 
EXCESSIVE current from the circuit 
being tested 
4. The ammeter circuit INDUCES 
current into the circuit being tested 
 
2-27. In which of the following electronic 
circuits does the use of a meter with low 
sensitivity have the greatest loading 
effect? 
 
1. High-power circuits 
2. Low-current circuits 
3. High-current circuits 
4. High-voltage circuits

===== PDF-side 257 =====

17 
2-28. A basic D'Arsonval meter is used to 
measure voltage by connecting its meter 
coil to (a) what type of component in (b) 
what circuit arrangement? 
 
1. (a) Multiplier resistor 
(b) series 
2. (a) Multiplier resistor 
(b) parallel 
3. (a) Capacitor 
(b) parallel 
4. (a) Capacitor 
(b) series 
 
2-29. In a voltmeter, the D'Arsonval meter 
movement is caused to move by what 
electrical action? 
 
1. Power 
2. Voltage 
3. Current 
4. Conductance 
 
2-30. In a voltmeter, the meter scale is 
calibrated in which of the following 
categories? 
 
1. Power 
2. Voltage 
3. Current 
4. Conductance 
 
2-31. To figure the total value of series 
resistance needed to extend the range of a 
voltmeter, you need to know the value of 
current to cause full-scale deflection of 
the meter and what other value? 
 
1. Minimum applied voltage 
2. Maximum applied voltage 
3. Maximum applied current 
4. Minimum applied current 
 
2-32. Your voltmeter has four ranges: 1V, 
10V, 100V, and 1,000V.  To measure an 
unknown voltage in an amplifier, you 
should first select what range? 
 
1.        1  V 
2.      10  V 
3.    100  V 
4. 1,000  V 
 
2-33. Which of the following types of circuits 
are most affected by the loading effect of 
voltmeters? 
 
1. Low-voltage 
2. Low-resistance 
3. High-resistance 
4. High-current 
 
2-34. A voltmeter with a 10-microampere 
meter movement has a sensitivity of how 
many maximum ohms per volt? 
 
1.        1,000 
2.      10,000 
3.    100,000 
4. 1,000,000 
 
2-35. A megger is widely used for which of the 
following purposes? 
 
1. To make voltage checks 
2. To make continuity checks 
3. To measure insulation resistance 
4. To measure resistance of components 
 
2-36. Before you can take an accurate 
resistance measurement with an 
ohmmeter, what meter adjustment must 
you complete? 
 
1. Zero voltage 
2. Zero resistance 
3. Maximum voltage 
4. Maximum resistance

===== PDF-side 258 =====

18 
2-37. When the leads of an ohmmeter are 
placed across a resistor, that resistor adds 
to the internal series coil resistance of the 
meter.  The pointer is deflected to the left 
of its full-scale position, giving a reading 
in ohms for the resistor being tested.  
Which of the following reasons explains 
why the pointer moves to less than full-
scale? 
 
1. Because voltage in the meter circuit 
is greater than full-scale voltage 
2. Because current in the meter circuit 
is greater than full-scale current 
3. Because current in the meter circuit 
is less than full-scale current 
4. Because voltage in the meter circuit 
is less than full-scale current 
 
2-38. With the ohmmeter range switch set at R 
X 100, the pointer of the meter indicates 
850.  What is the actual value of the 
resistor? 
 
1.     8.5 kilohms 
2.   85 kilohms 
3. 850 kilohms 
4.     8.5 megohms 
 
 
RANGE SCALE RESISTOR VALUE 
 
A. R×1   50 kilohms 
B. R×10 500 kilohms 
C. R×100     5 megohms 
 
Figure 2D.—Range scales and resistance values. 
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTION 2-39, REFER 
TO FIGURE 2D. 
 
2-39. You are measuring resistors using range 
settings as shown in the figure.  What 
condition listed in the figure, if any, will 
cause the greatest amount of current to 
move through the ohmmeter coil circuit? 
 
1. A 
2. B 
3. C 
4. None; they all allow the same 
amount of current 
 
2-40. Which of the following locations on the 
meter scale provides the most accurate 
reading for resistance? 
 
1. To the far left side of the scale 
2. To the far right side of the scale 
3. Halfway between the left side and 
center of the scale 
4. Near the center of the scale 
 
2-41. An ordinary ohmmeter is unsuitable for 
measuring insulation resistance for which 
of the following reasons? 
 
1. Voltage is present in the conductors 
attached to the insulating materials 
being measured 
2. Insulation resistance values are too 
great for an ohmmeter to measure 
3. Ohmmeter current will damage 
insulation material 
4. The accuracy of an ohmmeter is too 
low to measure insulation resistance

===== PDF-side 259 =====

19 
 
Figure 2E.—Megger circuit. 
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTION 2-42, REFER 
TO FIGURE 2E. 
 
2-42. In the megger circuit, what component 
prevents leakage current from affecting 
ohmmeter measurements? 
 
1. Guard ring 
2. Generator 
3. Resistor R3 
4. Coil 
 
2-43. When a megger is used to measure an 
unknown resistance, what circuit action 
causes the pointer to come to rest at the 
correct resistance value? 
 
1. The current flow in coil A 
2. The current flow in coil B 
3. The interaction between the currents 
in coils A and B 
4. The interaction between the 
restraining springs of the meter and 
the current in coil A 
 
2-44. A megger uses high voltage to check the 
insulation leakage in the megohm range.  
What is the source of this voltage? 
 
1. Batteries 
2. The ship's ac power 
3. The ship's dc power 
4. A hand-driven dc generator 
 
2-45. Meggers with which of the following 
maximum voltage ratings are commonly 
found in the fleet? 
 
1.    500 volts 
2.    700 volts 
3. 1,000 volts 
4. 2,500 volts 
 
2-46. When a megger is used to measure the 
resistance of an electrical cable, what 
does a reading of infinity indicate? 
 
1. The meter is faulty 
2. The cable is shorted 
3. The cable is grounded 
4. The resistance is too large to measure 
 
2-47. A megger is prevented from exceeding 
its rated output voltage by which of the 
following actions? 
 
1. Battery discharge limits the voltage 
2. Tension in the cable 
3. Friction clutch slippage 
4. Current leaks through internal 
insulation 
 
2-48. When the crank of a 500-volt megger is 
rotated faster than its designed rate, what 
maximum output voltage does it 
produce? 
 
1. 100 volts 
2. 500 volts 
3. 520 volts 
4. 550 volts

===== PDF-side 260 =====

20 
2-49. The galvanometer-type meter movement 
differs from the electrodynamometer 
meter movement in that the 
electrodynamometer type uses which of 
the following components to produce the 
magnetic field? 
 
1. Two sets of coils 
2. Two permanent magnets 
3. One fixed and one movable coil 
4. One movable coil and one permanent 
magnet 
 
2-50. The fixed coils in the 
electrodynamometer-type movement are 
wound with heavy wire to enable the 
instrument to measure which of the 
following values? 
 
1. Rf currents 
2. High voltage 
3. Large currents 
4. High resistance 
 
2-51. An advantage that the 
electrodynamometer has over the 
standard galvanometer in measuring ac is 
that the electrodynamometer requires 
 
1. no rectifying device 
2. a less complicated rectifying device 
3. less current to obtain a full-scale 
deflection 
4. fewer multiplier resistors to cover the 
measurement range 
 
 
THIS SPACE LEFT BLANK 
INTENTIONALLY. 
 
2-52. When power is being measured with a 
wattmeter, why is it important to strictly 
observe the safe rating limits for current 
and voltage? 
 
1. Because the meter pointer will likely 
hit against the upper limit of the dial 
and be damaged 
2. Because the pointer does not give an 
indication to alert the user when the 
internal coils are overloaded 
3. Because a false reading may be 
obtained 
4. Because the meter pointer will likely 
hit against the lower limit of the dial 
and be damaged 
 
2-53. The reading of a wattmeter is dependent 
upon which of the following circuit 
characteristics? 
 
1. Current 
2. Voltage 
3. Power factor 
4. All of the above 
 
2-54. A continuity test is performed on a piece 
of electronic equipment to discover what 
kind of fault? 
 
1. High voltage 
2. Low voltage 
3. Open circuits 
4. Changes in component values 
 
2-55. Which of the following meters is 
recommended for circuit continuity tests? 
 
1. A megger 
2. An ammeter 
3. A voltmeter 
4. An ohmmeter

===== PDF-side 261 =====

21 
2-56. When preparing to use an ohmmeter to 
test a circuit for grounds, you should first 
take which of the following actions? 
 
1. Energize the circuit 
2. Disconnect all intentional grounds 
3. Measure the circuit voltage at the 
power source 
4. Connect all intentional grounds 
 
2-57. When preparing to use a voltmeter to 
measure voltage in a circuit, you should 
first take which of the following actions? 
 
1. Set the meter to the lowest voltage 
range 
2. Remove the suspected component 
from the circuit 
3. Check the voltage from the power 
source to ensure it is correct 
4. Check the current flow through the 
circuit with an ammeter 
 
2-58. It is important to set a voltmeter on its 
highest range scale before taking a 
measurement for which of the following 
reasons? 
 
1. To protect the meter from damage 
2. To decrease the effects of input 
impedance 
3. To increase the sensitivity of the 
measurement 
4. To protect the equipment being 
tested from damage 
 
 
THIS SPACE LEFT BLANK 
INTENTIONALLY. 
2-59. An accurate measurement of a particular 
resistor in a set of parallel resistors may 
be obtained by performing which of the 
following procedural steps? 
 
1. Connecting the ohmmeter leads 
across the resistor while in place 
2. Disconnecting the resistor from the 
set before taking the measurement 
3. Grounding the resistance set before 
taking the measurement 
4. Using the highest ohmmeter range 
 
 
 
Figure 2F.—Circuit. 
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTION 2-60, REFER 
TO FIGURE 2F. 
 
2-60. To measure R2 with an ohmmeter, (a) in 
what position should the ON/OFF switch 
be placed, and (b) where should the test 
probes be placed? 
 
1. (a) Off (b) at B and C 
2. (a) Off (b) at C and D 
3. (a) On (b) at C and D 
4. (a) On (b) at B and C 
 
2-61. In what arrangement is an ammeter 
connected to a circuit? 
 
1. In series 
2. In parallel 
3. In a series-parallel combination 
4. In a parallel-series combination

===== PDF-side 262 =====

22 
2-62. When you are measuring voltage using a 
voltmeter, where should you stand to 
view the meter reading? 
 
1. To the right of the meter only 
2. To the left of the meter only 
3. To the right or left of the meter, 
depending on your handedness 
4. Directly in front of the meter 
 
2-63. A multimeter is used to measure which 
of the following electrical properties? 
 
1. Voltage 
2. Current 
3. Resistance 
4. Each of the above 
 
2-64. Which of the following characteristics is 
an advantage of a volt-ohm meter? 
 
1. It replaces three separate meters 
2. There are no calibrations to be made 
3. It is the most accurate meter 
available 
4. It cannot be damaged 
 
 
  
A. SELECT RANGE SCALE 
B. SHORT ENDS OF PROBES 
TOGETHER 
C. ZERO THE METER USING THE ZERO 
ADJUST CONTROL 
  
Figure 2G.—Zeroadjust steps. 
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTION 2-65, REFER 
TO FIGURE 2G. 
 
2-65. Before you measure resistance, it is 
important that you calibrate (zero) the 
ohmmeter.  In what order should the 
actions in the figure be performed? 
 
1. A, B, and C 
2. B, C, and A 
3. C, B, and A 
4. B, A, and C 
2-66. On an ohmmeter, which of the following 
switches allows selection of ac or dc 
readings? 
 
1. ZERO-OHMS 
2. FUNCTION 
3. RANGE 
4. RESET 
 
2-67. Which of the following actions MUST be 
taken before resistance measurements are 
made in a circuit? 
 
1. All semiconductor devices must be 
removed from the circuit 
2. Expected measurements must be 
recorded 
3. The circuit must be completely de-
energized 
4. The high range of the ohmmeter 
must be selected 
 
2-68. The power required to operate a basic 
ohmmeter comes from which of the 
following sources? 
 
1. Batteries 
2. An ac power supply 
3. Both 1 and 2 above 
4. A hand crank 
 
 
THIS SPACE LEFT BLANK 
INTENTIONALLY.

===== PDF-side 263 =====

23 
  
 POINTER LOCATION 
 
1. EXTREME RIGHT 
2. EXTREME LEFT 
3. MIDSCALE 
  
Figure 2H.—Ohmeter pointer location 
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTIONS 2-69 
THROUGH 2-72, REFER TO FIGURE 2H 
AND SELECT THE OHMMETER POINTER 
LOCATION THAT RESULTS FROM THE 
CONDITION GIVEN. 
 
2-69. Both test leads are touching the metal 
chassis of a piece of equipment. 
 
2-70. The test leads are shorted together. 
 
2-71. The test leads are separated from each 
other and not touching anything else. 
 
2-72. An accurate resistance reading is being 
made. 
 
2-73. The function of the ZERO OHM control 
on a multimeter is to compensate for 
which of the following conditions? 
 
1. Meter battery aging 
2. Large values of resistance in the 
circuit to be measured 
3. Inter-electrode capacitance in the 
circuit to be measured 
4. Stray voltages in the circuit under 
test 
 
2-74. When using a multimeter to measure an 
output voltage, you should ensure that 
the dc voltage component does not 
exceed what maximum voltage? 
 
1. 100 volts 
2. 200 volts 
3. 300 volts 
4. 400 volts 
 
2-75. When measuring unknown currents, you 
should determine the range scale that is 
appropriate in what way? 
 
1. Start with the expected scale 
2. Start with the lowest scale and work 
up 
3. Start with the highest scale and work 
down 
4. Use the highest scale only

===== PDF-side 264 =====

24 
ASSIGNMENT 3 
 
Textbook assignment: Chapter 4, “Common Test Equipment,” pages 4-11 through 4-28.  Chapter 5, 
“Special Application Test Equipment,” pages 5-1 through 5-40.  Chapter 6, “The Oscilloscope and 
Spectrum Analyzer,” pages 6-1 through 6-46. 
___________________________________________________________________________________ 
 
3-1. Compared to the VOM, the electronic 
digital multimeter has which of the 
following advantages? 
 
1. It has higher input impedance 
2. It can be read directly without using a 
scale 
3. It has little or no loading effect on the 
circuit under test 
4. All of the above 
 
3-2. Digital multimeters can be divided into 
three functional sections: (1) signal 
conditioning, (2) analog-to-digital, and 
what third section? 
 
1. Display 
2. Amplifier 
3. Oscillator 
4. Power supply 
 
3-3. What section in the electronic multimeter 
decodes the digital (binary) information 
from the a/d converter section? 
 
1. Display 
2. Analog ic 
3. Digital ic 
4. Signal conditioning 
 
3-4. The ac/dc differential voltmeter is 
capable of performing which of the 
following functions? 
 
1. Voltage readings as an electronic 
voltmeter 
2. Voltage readings as a precision 
potentiometer 
3. Voltage variation readings about 
some known value 
4. Each of the above 
 
3-5. In a differential voltmeter, an adjustable 
reference voltage can be produced in 
increments as small as how many 
microvolts? 
 
1.   1 
2.   2 
3.   5 
4. 10 
 
3-6. When you are taking ac or dc voltage 
readings, the differential voltmeter will 
not load the circuit under test.  
 
1. True 
2. False 
 
3-7. Which of the following transistor 
parameters are measured with the 
transistor tester? 
 
1. Collector leakage and cutoff current 
2. Collector leakage and maximum 
power dissipation 
3. Collector leakage and current gain 
4. Emitter leakage and power gain 
 
3-8. When you are disconnecting a transistor 
from the transistor tester, in what 
position should the POLARITY switch 
be placed? 
 
1. ON 
2. OFF 
3. PNP 
4. NPN

===== PDF-side 265 =====

25 
3-9. When you are testing a transistor with a 
transistor tester, for the reading to have 
±15 percent accuracy, the resistance from 
emitter to base must be what minimum 
value? 
 
1. 100 ohms 
2. 200 ohms 
3. 300 ohms 
4.   50 ohms 
 
3-10. When you are testing an in-circuit diode 
with the transistor tester, the meter 
pointer deflects below the midscale 
point.  What does this indicate? 
 
1. The diode is normal 
2. The diode is faulty 
3. The circuit impedance is 8 ohms 
4. The POLARITY switch is in the PNP 
position 
 
3-11. The RCL bridge measures an unknown 
resistance by balancing the resistance 
value of the unknown component with 
that of known components inside the test 
set.  What type of circuit is used in this 
method of measurement? 
 
1. O'Neill bridge 
2. Wheatstone bridge 
3. Colpitts oscillator 
4. D'Arsonval movement 
 
3-12. The RCL bridge is used to measure 
which of the following quantities? 
 
1. Resistance, capacitance, and 
inductance 
2. Capacitor quality 
3. The turns ratio of transformers 
4. Each of the above 
 
3-13. To make an inductance measurement on 
the model 250DE, you must first adjust 
the DET GAIN control to what position? 
 
1. 1 
2. 2 
3. 3 
4. 4 
3-14. The direct-measuring power meter is 
used for which of the following types of 
measurements? 
 
1. Incident power 
2. Reflected power 
3. Both 1 and 2 above 
4. Average power 
 
3-15. When you are selecting forward or 
reverse power measurements, what 
component(s) of the rf wattmeter is/are 
restricted to a 180°; rotation range? 
 
1. The coupler-detector 
2. The POWER RANGE knob 
3. The u-type connector 
4. Both 2 and 3 above 
 
3-16. Of the following available rf wattmeter 
power ranges, which one should you 
select when measuring an unknown 
power? 
 
1.     10 watts 
2.   100 watts 
3.   500 watts 
4. 1000 watts 
 
 
THIS SPACE LEFT BLANK 
INTENTIONALLY.

===== PDF-side 266 =====

26 
_______________________________________ 
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTIONS 3-17 AND     
3-18, ASSUME THAT YOU HAVE 
OBTAINED THE FOLLOWING RF POWER 
MEASUREMENTS: 
 
— INCIDENT POWER, 144 WATTS 
— REFLECTED POWER, 1 WATT 
_______________________________________ 
 
 
3-17. What is the approximate standing wave 
ratio? 
 
1. .85 to 1 
2. 1 to 1 
3. .08 to 1 
4. 1.2 to 1 
 
3-18. What total amount of power is absorbed 
by the load? 
 
1.     1 watt 
2.   13 watts 
3. 143 watts 
4. 173 watts 
 
3-19. To take power readings, you connect an 
in-line rf power meter in what 
configuration in the transmission line? 
 
1. Series 
2. Parallel 
3. Series-parallel 
4. Horizontal 
 
3-20. Which of the following test instruments 
produces a standard of measurement of 
ac energy for testing electronics 
equipment? 
 
1. Power meter 
2. Oscilloscope 
3. Signal generator 
4. Frequency counter 
 
3-21. Signal generators are equipped with 
attenuators for which of the following 
purposes? 
 
1. To regulate the output frequency 
2. To regulate the output signal level 
3. To determine the modulating 
frequency 
4. To set the level of internal modulation 
 
3-22. Which of the following signal generators 
should you select to test audio 
equipment? 
 
1. Af signal generator 
2. Fm signal generator 
3. Rf signal generator 
4. Video signal generator 
 
 
Figure 3A.—Af signal generator block diagram.  
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTION 3-23, REFER 
TO FIGURE 3A.  
 
3-23. What section of the signal generator 
regulates the output to the equipment 
under test? 
 
1. The amplifier 
2. The attenuator 
3. The oscillator 
4. The output meter

===== PDF-side 267 =====

27 
3-24. Typical rf signal generators use which of 
the following methods for modulation? 
 
1. Internal modulation 
2. External modulation 
3. Both 1 and 2 above 
4. Power supply modulation 
 
3-25. The modulating circuit in an rf signal 
generator serves which of the following 
purposes? 
 
1. It produces an fm signal that can be 
superimposed on the rf signal 
2. It produces a video signal that can be 
superimposed on the rf signal 
3. It produces an audio signal that can be 
superimposed on the rf signal 
4. Both 2 and 3 above 
 
3-26. The output level meter of a signal 
generator reads 0. 10 with the attenuator 
set to 080. 0.  What is the actual output in 
microvolts? 
 
1. 00.08 
2. 00.80 
3. 08.00 
4. 80.00 
 
3-27. Frequency counters serve which of the 
following purposes? 
 
1. Measure voltage in a circuit 
2. Measure frequencies in a circuit 
3. Produce voltages to test a circuit 
4. Produce frequencies to power a 
circuit 
 
3-28. In which of the following ways is a logic 
probe useful to a technician? 
 
1. It detects steady logic levels 
2. It detects a train of logic levels 
3. Both 1 and 2 above 
4. It displays the shape of high-speed 
transients 
 
3-29. In logic probes, which of the following 
devices is used as an indicator? 
 
1. A dial 
2. An LED 
3. A scale 
4. A pointer 
 
3-30. The Tracker 2000 is used to isolate 
defective components on de-energized 
circuits only. 
 
1. True 
2. False 
 
3-31. The VERT control adjustment controls 
what position of the signal on the CRT 
display? 
 
1. Horizontal 
2. Vertical 
3. Trace rotation left 
4. Trace rotation right 
 
3-32. The axes of the CRT display on the 
Tracker 2000 are divided into what 
number of quadrants? 
 
1. 1 
2. 2 
3. 3 
4. 4 
 
3-33. Quadrant 2 on the Tracker 2000 CRT is 
used to display what signal information? 
 
1. Positive voltage negative current 
2. Positive voltage and positive current 
3. Negative voltage and negative current 
4. Negative voltage and positive current 
 
3-34. When you are adjusting the level control 
on the Tracker 2000, the peak of each 
pulse will be from 0 volts to what 
maximum voltage level? 
 
1. 1 
2. 5 
3. 3 
4. 9

===== PDF-side 268 =====

28 
3-35. The medium 1 range on the Tracker 2000 
is designed to test resistance values 
between what (a) minimum and (b) 
maximum values? 
 
1. (a)     5 ohms (b)     1 kilohm 
2. (a)   50 ohms (b)   10 kilohms 
3. (a) 500 ohms (b) 100 kilohms 
4. (a)   50 kilohms (b)   10 megohms 
 
3-36. What is the principal use of the 
oscilloscope? 
 
1. To measure microwave energy 
2. To visually examine waveforms 
3. To measure in-line power supply 
currents 
4. To locate sources of radio 
interference 
 
3-37. Cathode-ray tubes used in oscilloscopes 
contain which of the following 
components? 
 
1. An electron gun 
2. A deflection system 
3. A fluorescent screen 
4. All of the above 
 
3-38. In a basic oscilloscope, what is the 
purpose of the deflection system? 
 
1. To filter harmonic frequencies 
2. To deflect harmonic frequencies 
3. To position the beam on the screen 
4. To deflect synchronous side effects 
 
3-39. If the electron beam is left in one 
position on the CRT for long periods, 
damage is likely to occur to what 
component(s)? 
 
1. Illuminating coating 
2. Deflection plates 
3. Signal generator 
4. Electron gun 
 
3-40. Of the following factors, which one(s) 
control(s) the angle of deflection of the 
electron beam in the CRT? 
 
1. Difference of potential between plates 
2. Length of deflection field 
3. Beam acceleration 
4. All of the above 
 
3-41. In an oscilloscope, which of the 
following waveform characteristics are 
represented by (a) vertical deflection and 
(b) horizontal deflection? 
 
1. (a) Amplitude (b) frequency 
2. (a) Power (b) amplitude 
3. (a) Power (b) frequency 
4. (a) Time (b) amplitude 
 
3-42. In oscilloscopes using electrostatic 
CRTs, what type of signal is used to 
produce horizontal beam movement? 
 
1. Dc 
2. Sine wave 
3. Square wave 
4. Sawtooth wave 
 
3-43. The length of time the phosphor coating 
on the CRT remains bright after the 
electron beam is removed depends on 
which of the following characteristics? 
 
1. Persistence of the coating 
2. Amplitude of the applied signal 
3. Frequency of the applied signal 
4. Synchronization frequency of the 
oscilloscope 
 
3-44. An oscilloscope that can display two 
vertical input signals at the same time is 
said to be what type? 
 
1. Two-function 
2. Dual-trace 
3. Single-function 
4. Single-trace

===== PDF-side 269 =====

29 
3-45. The FOCUS control on the front of an 
oscilloscope is used to adjust what 
characteristic on the CRT display? 
 
1. Beam size 
2. Beam location 
3. Trace position 
4. Beam brilliance 
 
  
Figure 3B.—CRT traces.  
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTIONS 3-46 
THROUGH 3-48, REFER TO FIGURE 3B.  
 
3-46. What trace in the figure should you 
correct by adjusting ONLY the 
HORIZONTAL POSITION control? 
 
1. A 
2. B 
3. C 
4. D 
 
3-47. What trace in the figure should you 
correct by adjusting ONLY the 
VERTICAL POSITION control? 
 
1. A 
2. B 
3. C 
4. D 
 
3-48. In the figure, what trace would be 
corrected by adjusting both the 
HORIZONTAL POSITION and 
VERTICAL POSITION controls? 
 
1. A 
2. B 
3. C 
4. D 
 
3-49. What is the purpose of the deflection 
amplifiers in a cathode-ray oscilloscope? 
 
1. To isolate the input signal from the 
vertical deflection plates 
2. To increase the amplitude of the 
signal applied to the vertical 
deflection plates 
3. To eliminate distortion of the CRT 
beam 
4. To position the beam on the CRT 
 
3-50. What control on the front panel of an 
oscilloscope limits the input signal 
amplitude and allows the oscilloscope to 
be used with a wide range of signals? 
 
1. TIME/CM 
2. TIME BASE 
3. ATTENUATOR 
4. TRIGGER 
 
3-51. What is the purpose of a variable 
potentiometer mounted on the 
VOLTS/DIV control of an oscilloscope? 
 
1. To provide definite step control of the 
input signal 
2. To provide fine control of the input 
signal 
3. To provide fine control of the output 
signal 
4. To provide definite step control of the 
output signal 
 
3-52. The time base of an oscilloscope is 
variable to enable the instrument to 
 
1. measure low- and high-amplitude 
signal voltages 
2. operate over a wide range of input 
frequencies 
3. make accurate measurements of 
signal amplitudes 
4. accurately position the presentation 
on the CRT

===== PDF-side 270 =====

30 
3-53. The triggered oscilloscope has which of 
the following advantages over a basic 
oscilloscope? 
 
1. Better low-voltage input- handling 
capability 
2. Lower distortion of input signal 
3. Both 1 and 2 above 
4. Improved presentation stability 
 
3-54. The TRIGGER and LEVEL controls are 
used to synchronize the sweep generator 
with what signal? 
 
1. Input 
2. Output 
3. Vertical deflection rate 
4. Horizontal deflection rate 
 
3-55. The setting of what control establishes 
the amplitude point of the input 
waveform at which the displayed sweep 
will begin? 
 
1. TRIGGER LEVEL 
2. TRIGGER SLOPE 
3. AMPLITUDE 
4. A delayed by B 
 
 
 
Figure 3C.—Oscilloscope displays.  
 
IN ANSWERING QUESTIONS 3-56 
THROUGH 3-60, REFER TO FIGURE 3C.  
SELECT THE OSCILLOSCOPE DISPLAY 
THAT CORRESPONDS TO THE SETTING 
OF THE TRIGGER LEVEL AND SLOPE 
CONTROLS IN THE QUESTIONS.  
 
3-56. TRIGGER LEVEL set to zero; SLOPE 
set to negative.  
 
1. A 
2. C 
3. E 
4. F 
 
3-57. TRIGGER LEVEL set to positive; 
SLOPE set to negative.  
 
1. A 
2. D 
3. E 
4. F 
 
3-58. TRIGGER LEVEL set to negative; 
SLOPE set to positive.  
 
1. B 
2. C 
3. D 
4. F

===== PDF-side 271 =====

31 
3-59. TRIGGER LEVEL set to negative; 
SLOPE set to negative.  
 
1. A 
2. B 
3. C 
4. D 
 
3-60. TRIGGER LEVEL set to positive; 
SLOPE set to positive.  
 
1. A 
2. C 
3. D 
4. F 
 
3-61. Which of the following electrical 
quantities can be measured using an 
oscilloscope? 
 
1. Current 
2. Frequency 
3. Inductance 
4. Capacitance 
 
3-62. What effect does sweep frequency that is 
higher than the incoming signal 
frequency have on the displayed signal? 
 
1. It produces a jittery view of the 
incoming signal 
2. It produces a multiple view of the 
incoming signal 
3. It produces an exact view of the 
incoming signal 
4. It produces less than a complete view 
of the incoming signal 
 
3-63. A dual-trace oscilloscope differs from a 
dual-beam oscilloscope in that the dual- 
trace device uses (a) what number of 
electron beams and (b) what number of 
channels? 
 
1. (a) 1 (b) 1 
2. (a) 2 (b) 1 
3. (a) 2 (b) 2 
4. (a) 1 (b) 2 
 
3-64. What two modes are used to obtain the 
dual trace on an oscilloscope? 
 
1. Chop and beam 
2. Chop and alternate 
3. Slow sweep and beam 
4. Alternate and slow sweep 
 
3-65. Of the following oscilloscope switch 
settings, which ones will provide 
desirable (a) slow sweep speeds and (b) 
high sweep speeds? 
 
1. (a) CHOP 
(b) ALTERNATE 
2. (a) SLOW SWEEP 
(b) ALTERNATE 
3. (a) BEAM SWITCH 
(b) SLOW SWEEP 
4. (a) ALTERNATE 
(b) CHOP 
 
3-66. In a dual-trace oscilloscope, the gate that 
controls both sweeps is controlled by a 
multivibrator that operates at which of 
the following maximum frequencies? 
 
1.     50 kHz 
2.   100 kHz 
3.   500 kHz 
4. 1,200 kHz 
 
3-67. What is the basic internal configuration 
of the typical dual-trace oscilloscope? 
 
1. One gun assembly with two vertical 
channels 
2. Two gun assemblies with two 
horizontal channels 
3. One gun assembly with two vertical 
and horizontal channels 
4. Two gun assemblies with one vertical 
and horizontal channel

===== PDF-side 272 =====

32 
3-68. The horizontal sweep channels of the 
dual-trace oscilloscopes have which of 
the following time base circuit 
configurations? 
 
1. One time base circuit 
2. Two interdependent time base circuits 
3. Two independently controlled time 
base circuits 
4. Variations of all the above 
configurations 
 
3-69. Which of the following types of probes 
are commonly available for use with the 
oscilloscope? 
 
1. Current 
2. One-to-one 
3. Attenuation 
4. All of the above 
 
3-70. On the spectrum analyzer, what 
information can be found on the (a) x 
axis and (b) y axis? 
 
1. (a) Voltage (b) current 
2. (a) Frequency (b) amplitude 
3. (a) Amplitude (b) frequency 
4. (a) Current (b) voltage 
 
3-71. The intensity knob on the spectrum 
analyzer controls what display 
function(s)? 
 
1. Focus 
2. Brightness of the CRT trace 
3. Brightness of the readout display 
4. Both 2 and 3 above 
 
3-72. On the spectrum analyzer, the RF input 
jack is used to accept what maximum 
frequency input signals? 
 
1. 21 GHz or below 
2. 21 GHz or above 
3. 31 GHz or below 
4. 31 GHz or above 
 
3-73. The POSITION control on the spectrum 
analyzer is used to adjust which of the 
following CRT display features? 
 
1. Vertical position only 
2. Horizontal position only 
3. Vertical and horizontal position 
4. Beam focus
